[{"Title":"Right said Bob!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"159 out of 186 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman's long, fragmented and very hit-or-miss career reaches another of his periodic highs with this clever and beautifully realised dissection of the English class system and skit on the classic Agatha Christie whonunnit.Altman's preferences for kaleidoscopic social observation has sometimes failed in the past due to the weight of its own ambition multi-plotted and multi-charactered snapshots of time and place held together by loose ties or a general thematic framework. Sometimes it pays off spectacularly (Nashville); sometimes it flatters to deceive (Short Cuts).It works well here due to the necessary discipline of the single location and the greater opportunities for interaction among the characters this affords. Add to that an exemplary cast of (mostly) British character actors and a knowing script by Julian Fellowes that gives Altman's keenly observant camera plenty of time to make its own points.Rightly, Altman is less concerned with the murder mystery, which is almost an aside, than with the opportunity given by a shooting party at a 1930s stately mansion to observe the English aristocracy and their servants in social interaction.Never happier than when involved in a bit of human anthropology, Altman lightly dissects the complexities and hierarchies which go on both above and below stairs; in which many subtle and unsubtle rituals are played out among groups of people who clearly dislike each other but are forced through circumstance, need or employment to observe the fundamental social practices required.1932 is also a time of intruding change into the nature of the old English ruling classes, slowly disintegrating in this between-wars period and, in this case, largely reliant on the wealth of one particularly reluctant patron to keep them in furs and flunkies. In on this act comes the (to them) faintly odious whiff of 20th century new money, represented by Hollywood and popular culture. These intruders are kept in their place, but the message is clear - change is coming, and coming fast.The muted colours and autumnal setting continue this theme of a world in terminal decline and of a group of characters keenly conscious of place and tradition yet also wearied and exhausted by it. Only at the very end, when fundamental change has occurred and many characters are left to face up to very different destinies do we see a bit of sunshine creeping in, heralding the dawn of a new era.The cast are all excellent, with special mention deserving of Maggie Smith's effortless scene stealing as a bitchy but broke old Countess; the ever reliable Jeremy Northam as matinee idol Ivor Novello, well aware of his place in the great scheme of things and young Kelly Macdonald in the pivotal role of Smith's harassed maid who's inquisitiveness rattles a whole load of family skeletons.  "},{"Title":"Whodunit Ain't the Focus","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"188 out of 251 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The reason why many viewers strongly dislike or even hate the movie Gosford Park is because they misunderstand the point trying to be made. Gosford Park wasn't made to focus on whodunit (if it was, why would they tell you who did). If viewers think that Gosford Park is boring or confusing or even the worst movie ever, it may be that you're not willing to see what really is portrayed the authenticity and its story. The authenticity of Gosford Park is as close as it can get to real life as it was back then as it can get. Experts who were maids, butlers, or cooks themselves were constantly at the scene criticizing the actors behavior and moves. Another main focus is the story behind it. The brilliant story as well as excellent character development are like no other only Robert Altman could do a film such as this. So, next time you see it (which I highly recommend that you do), be PATIENT and actually be WILLING the enjoy the differences in film-making, not just the kind of films you like.  "},{"Title":"Good Work, as usual...","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"94 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When Robert Altman makes a new film, it's always a noteworthy event that gets the attention of critics and audiences alike large productions with huge ensemble casts of major Hollywood movie stars, playing real people with full, fleshed out characters, each with their own subplots that intertwine only subtly, until the end when it all finally makes sense. In Gosford Park, Altman makes only two changes to this formula Hollywood stars are replaced by Top British talent that may be unfamiliar to most American audiences, and a straightforward murder mystery supplants his traditionally complicated plot line. It is in these changes, however, where Altman charms his audiences in a new way. The story takes place in 1932 at a gathering of aristocrats and their servants for a hunting country weekend at the estate of Sir William McCordle. Some time after all the guests are settled in and whose affairs begin to intertwine, one of them is bumped off. While all the characters are well fleshed out, it's Mary, played by Kelly Macdonald, who is the focus of the drama. She's the maid of Maggie Smith's Countess Constance of Trentham, and is being groomed to follow a path to become head servant. After the murder takes place, emotions unfold and secrets from the past are revealed that help the characters - and the audience - solve the mystery. The drama is even more punctuated when Mary's innocence and naiveté is lost as she pieces together the deeper scandal, involving servant-master sexual relations and bastard children.One of the best aspects of film is how it illustrates that fine line dividing the master-servant social structures, and how often that line is crossed, reminding us that life is just a game of costumes and masks, and we're all the same underneath. While the story was reminiscent of Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians, where it's the mystery that captivates the audience, Altman goes beyond the mystery with Gosford Park by using the murder as a vehicle to draw attention to the human condition and class hierarchy.On the downside, but to no surprise to fans of Altman's work, the movie is often hard to follow. His style of filmmaking involves entanglements of characters and subplots that don't appear to have much to do with one another at first blush, and Gosford Park takes this to the next level. Here, the murder takes place at the climax of this confusion, leaving you rather disoriented in the middle of the 2-hour-plus drama. Fortunately, the tone loosens up when a comedy-dim police inspector basically gets nowhere in his investigation, but the pieces start coming together through the other characters. The good news is that it all seems to come together in the end in a way that didn't require grasping every detail of every scene.Despite its intricacies and confusing moments, there is so much more to Gosford Park that makes it interesting and enchanting. While it is clearly a sophisticated piece of film work with impeccable acting, directing and design, don't stress about not keeping up with it all the time. Sit back and take it in, and you'll feel satisfied in the end. "},{"Title":"A review of a great film","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"94 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Violence, mystery, sex, and murder, Gosford Park has it all.  Director Robert Altman once again takes the Hollywood formula and gives a unique twist.  The story begins when aristocrats during 1932 gather at Sir William McCordle's (Michael Gambon) estate for a shooting party.  The guests are wealthy people with their trusty servants.  People arrive at the McCordle estate two by two and the traditions begin.  The servants set up dinner for their masters and the aristocrats begin their personal routines. The story moves on as the characters begin to establish their names and the audience learns their varying social status.  The intertwining stories among the guests begin to surface and the audience begins to realize there is much more in this house than what meets the eye.During the night one member of the elite group is killed.  None of the guests seemed to be fazed by this event and are only upset by the inconvenience it sets up for their lives.The only one troubled is Constance, Countess of Trentham's maid, Mary (Kelly McDonald).  The story begins to focus on Mary, who discovers secrets among the visitors and leads the audience to solve the mystery.The great aspect about this film is Robert Altman's abilities to bring the past to life.  He pays excellent attention to detail and is able to recreate the feelings and morals during the time period.  He emerges the audience into a film world filled with history and story.  Throughout the film Altman visually shows the audience the contrast between social classes through his various shots, lighting techniques, and camera filters.  His fluid camera movements visually portray foreshadowing and relationship among characters. These elements give the audience a complete understanding of the mood and atmosphere in the film.I recommend this movie to anybody who has the patience to sit and focus on this excellent film.  Although the beginning is appropriately slow moving and the characters names are difficult to remember, the payoff is worth the efforts.  This movie is made for active film viewers and all Robert Altman fans.  "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"119 out of 165 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wish I was more surprised that there are so many negative comments, but I'm not. This is not American Pie. It's a beautifully acted and very well written film for adults with an attention span of more than 5 minutes. Concentrate, it's worth it. I don't give 10's easily. This is a 10! "},{"Title":"We All Have Secrets.","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"62 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are directors who can direct huge, massive Cecil B. deMille epics like Peter Jackson. There are directors who have done nail-biting suspense, usually drenched in subtext, like the Director, Alfred Hitchcock. There are others who can do whatever they want and create beautiful, detached yet powerful films like Stanley Kubrick. Then there are ones who are brilliant with ensembles, telling stories which converge and often overlap within a main plot. One of them is the great Woody Allen. The other one is Robert Altman.GOSFORD PARK is an update of Jean Renoir's 1939 film LE REGLE DU JEU, in which wealthy relatives of an aristocrat come to a shooting party at a country home. Here, because of the obviously strained relationships between the host and his family has been less than amicable, it serves as a springboard where everyone's worst behavior and heretofore concealed feelings towards each other really come forth with an undertone of mean-spirited cruelty just brimming below the surface, while the servants act as non-entities when in their employers' presence but occasionally break into.Boasting one of the best introduction sequences ever, itself lengthy but necessary, GOSFORD PARK is a tour-de-force of narration that recalls Jane Austen's work. We first see Mary Maceachran (Kelly MacDonald, playing innocence that becomes a keen observer), maid to Lady Constance Trentham (Dame Maggie Smith, having a splendid time in her role), and Lady Trentham's flighty demands and annoyed conversation as they make their way to Gosford Park. They cross paths with movie actor Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam), his agent Morris Weissman (Bob Balaban), and Weissman's protégé, Henry Denton (Ryan Phillippe), who is the only one who doesn't introduce himself proper for reasons made clear later on, also heading towards the manor. The hellos are strained -- Lady Trentham is clearly not the friendly type --, but Mary is starstruck like the young girl she is. Once they (and the other guests) reach the house, activity is buzzing almost factory-like (factory being an important term here) as the housekeeper, Mrs. Wilson (Helen Mirren, taking self-control and omniscient stillness to a whole different level in a performance that has to be analyzed frame by frame), calmly gives out her orders. However, Altman, Fellowes, and Patrick Doyle bring a little extra dose to the scene the moment Robert Parks (Clive Owen) enters the picture and introduces himself to Mrs. Wilson while Mrs. Croft (Eileen Atkins) passes them by and turns to hear. Not soon after, the camera makes a zoom into a bottle of poison itself symbolic since immediately after that, the rest of the characters begin to show hints of their own shared poison. Isobel McCordle (Camila Rutherford), William (Michael Gambon) and Sylvia McCordle's (Kristin Scott Thomas) daughter, is carrying on with Freddie Nesbitt (James Wilby) who is tied to a marriage of convenience to Mabel (Claudie Blakely) whom he feels ashamed of. The Stockbridges are also on the outs, Lord Raymond (Charles Dance) preferring the safety of his own kind according to Louisa Stockbridge (Geraldine Sommerville) who is one of William McCordle's many women. Mary learns of the McCordle's familial relation to Ivor Novello from fellow maid Elsie (Emily Watson) who, while staunchly expresses her near-hatred for Lady Sylvia, suggests ever-so-slightly she whom she prefers working for. A later scene reveals little love between the McCordles, William McCordle's repudiation of Lady Constance (and his threat of withdrawing her pension) and even less love between the Nesbitts, and even more tension between the Merediths (Tom Hollander and Natasha Wightman) as they try to con McCordle into some odd business. Greed, lust, and secrets, permeating every pore of Gosford Park and its inhabitants.As a script (and a story written by Julian Fellowes), GOSFORD PARK is one of the most tightly and detailed ever committed to film because it forces the viewer to pay close attention to what characters are saying or suggesting to each other through their body language because everything has its own meaning; nothing is said or done to fulfill a plot requirement or for the sake of making conversation and even the most trivial hints are steps leading towards bigger and bigger denouements, primarily because the characters reveal in snippets pieces of information that tell us they know more about themselves than we do -- and this is its greatest asset. It is the equivalent of an abstract painting that upon scrutiny reveals layers and layers of what people dare not express up front and direct. This makes it, in fact, a delicious mystery and an open secret at the same time. Death and its cause-effect, an element ever present in an Altman film, never looked more elegantly funny. In this movie, with death coming as a murder (or double-murder if you will) to a widely disliked character, only Louisa Stockbridge expresses concern and even then it's somewhat insincere. Altman has great fun exposing the crime scene, but even more fun introducing Stephen Fry as the largely inept investigator because while the truth is brandished right in front of his face under the form of the aforementioned blink and miss pieces of information we've been getting, he doesn't see it before we do.GOSFORD PARK is also a meditation about an era where people who represent the exploited part of British society -- Robert Parks, Mrs. Wilson, Elsie --, and outsiders such as Mabel Nesbitt or Morris Weissman react against this caste system that seemed unmindful of the changes happening in the outside world. This doesn't necessarily solve anything or everything that occurs in GOSFORD PARK -- some plots are hinted at and that is fine -- but it does present an intricate comedy of manners of a time gone by just before WWII when Upstairs people mingled and shared their lives with the Downstairs people.Edited 11.17.2006 "},{"Title":"AWESOME ALTMAN!!!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"70 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film opened the London Film festival and I was lucky enough to see get tickets. Robert Altman was there and so were most of the cast.I've seen over half of the Altman cannon of work and this has to rank up with his best. Set in the 1920's, a group of people get together for a shooting weekend at the estate of Lord and Lady Mcardle. There are two sets of characters, the Toffs upstairs and the servants downstairs.  With his customary multi-streaming overlapping narrative, cross cutting dialogue and interwoven storylines, Altman sets up dynamics within and between the two classes. There are up to 32 speaking parts and each of them is invested with a clear identity. Just from a few lines, a gesture, raising of an eyebrow, we have an idea of a character's feelings and motivations.At times the narrative moves at such a fast pace, but we never lose track of whats going on. Scenes such as the Toffs in the Drawing room having tea - many conversations happening, dynamics being set up - and another where the servants are rushing around downstairs, as the camera weeves its way through the corridors, are exhilirating cinema!!  Altman has a tight grip on the proceedings and this only wavers slightly towards the end.There is a fantastic scene, where Ivor Novello - a guest, is invited to sing for the other guests and all the servants listen covertly from whatever vanatge point they can find. Novello oustays his welcome, amongst the gentry, but the servants cant get enough.What Altman has done here, helped enormously by the wonderfully humourous script by Julian Fellows, is invested these period characters with a modern sensibility. These are not the boring, stuffed dummy museum pieces of your typical period picture, these people are real. Rich or poor, their fallibilities, desires, disaffections and frustrations are evidently clear. This movie is so good, I wanted to get up and cheer at certain points. Altman is well served by the 'creme de la creme' of British Actors. All are excellent; Maggie Smith, Emily Watson, Helen Mirren, Kristin Scott-Thomas and Jeremy Northam to name a few. This film may not be everyones cup of tea and i am someone who can go watch anything from Scream 3 to the latest hot film from Asia, but those that invest the time on this film, will be much rewarded.  Altman deserves the Oscar that has eluded him for far too long.  "},{"Title":"The mystery aspect slows the pace but the film is best during the class tension and interrelationships","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In 1932, a group of socialites, landowners, Americans and their servants arrive at a country house for a shooting party over the weekend. As the relationships and tensions twist and weave upstairs, so too do the dynamics and relationships between the various house staff and valets below the stairs. Stories and characters play out but whenever a murder takes place, the police move in and everyone is a suspect.My plot summary suggests that this is a sort of murder mystery and that this will act as the driving force behind the narrative, however this is not the case and in reality the film is much more about the characters and relationships than it is about the murder. To this end the film will annoy some people who are perhaps not used to the sort of film that Altman produces and will be looking for the mystery aspect to be the all. However, I found the rather free-wheeling ensemble approach to be very enjoyable and the first hour moved quickly by thanks to the natural interactions and relationships and it was actually the mystery aspect that didn't work as well because it required too sudden a change in pace &#150; a change that the material seemed to resist and hamper. Despite this it does still work mainly because the Oscar winning writing brings out such convincing relationships and social politics, making it enjoyable and interesting throughout. The direction is great; the use of two cameras in group scenes means that the actors seem to flow around as naturally as their dialogue would suggest &#150; few seem forced to act to a fixed point and seem more realistic.Considering the talent on board, it is not surprising that nobody really upstages anyone in particular and the ensemble feel is strong. Smith, Gambon, Thomas, Dance, Northam, Balaban and others make the upstairs fizzle with snobbery and unspoken resentments. Meanwhile the downstairs staff are just as well drawn and delivered by Mirren, Owen, Jacobi, Watson, Bates, Grant, Atkins and others. Stephen Fry is fairly minor within the plot but he is delightfully comic, even if he doesn't quite fit into the film that well.Overall this is a classy film very much in the Altman style &#150; an ensemble piece of characters and relationships that we are left to drift within. Some viewers will find it frustrating that it takes so long to get to the point where the mystery kicks in but I actually found this to be the weaker aspect of the film and the most enjoyable parts were the well written characters and dialogue, which deservedly won Fellowes his Oscar. "},{"Title":"Altman Back in Top Form","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It thrills me to say that after a string of stinkers (Dr. T and the Women, The Gingerbread Man) and so-so light films (Cookie's Fortune), Robert Altman has an unequivocally excellent film on his hands with Gosford Park.  It's a film that works on many layers and needs to be seen more than once for one to fully appreciate its resonance.The film admittedly stinks as a murder mystery---it's almost funny how little Altman himself seems interested in the who-dunnit.  But, typically for Altman, it's the deconstruction of the genre that he's interested in, not the genre itself.  This movie isn't about a murder in a country house; it's a movie about class differences and people connecting (or not connecting) with one another.It seems futile to mention stand out performances in a film filled to the rafters with stand-out performances, but I did especially like Emily Watson as a cheeky maid, Helen Mirren as the perfect servant, and Kelly MacDonald as the novice lady's attendant who grows more than anyone else over the course of the film.The film is at its best when it's probing the emotional depths of the story---it comes across as a bit too glib when the satire gets especially acidic (mostly with the Kristin Scott Thomas character), but like the best of his movies (Nashville, M*A*S*H, Short Cuts) Altman knows how to control his own cynicism and doesn't let sarcasm rule.With his on again-off again track record, we can expect the next Altman film to tank, so let's enjoy this one while we can. "},{"Title":"You'll like it if you love films like Magnolia and Traffic","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"39 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've read through the first page of comments made by the many users, and I think I can understand why many think this film is overrated. People think that this film sucks because they don't like multi-story plot and they find it difficult to follow the stories. Some may expect a spine-chilling murder and want to be scared and wet the seat. However, those who really appreciate and understand the movie know more than clear that the film itself focuses on the life of the upper-class people (and the life of the time) rather than a bloody crime. The movie defines the word originality no better. In fact, Julian Fellowes deserves all the awards he received since the screenplay is challenging to write and it's difficult to pack all the stories in a 150-minute movie. He explains the complicated relationship between the visitors so well, and he virtually creates a motive for murdering Sir William for everyone so that the crime itself becomes very mystifying. Of course, I must admit that there are really too many characters and it's simply impossible to keep track of everyone's movement in the first half of the movie; but Julian leaves the necessary hints for our understanding that our feeling intensifies more and more as the story unfolds. Even better is the dialogue - sharp, sarcastic, amusing, clever. It confers life to the film and fully delineates the character of the many visitors however short the time is when they appear on the screen. Before I saw it, I had always asked why Memento did not win an Oscar. But the time when the film ended, I was left stunned on my seat. I mean both stories are great and original, but when comparing the relative difficulty in writing the screenplay, Gosford Park apparently wins.Gosford Park is to me perhaps the second best movie I've seen this year (after A Beautiful Mind). If you like films like Magnolia and Traffic, which require much patience to enjoy, it's perhaps the greatest movie of your lifetime. "}{"Title":"Atmosphere reigns supreme","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"33 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent movie about an idea.  The murder mystery is itself a MacGuffin to the central question of some of the characters' inter-relationships.  This film is deserving of its Academy Award and nominations !!  Watch it twice since it bears more insights on a closer viewing; it is full of inside entertainment for those who love the films of that era and the pop music genre of the 1930's.  Truly an ensemble effort with some excellent work by hardworking veterans and young British geniuses. "},{"Title":"Gosford Park is one of the slowest, pointless, dullest, unsatisfying experiences I've had at the cinema","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"38 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw Gosford Park in theaters way back in April 2002, after it was nominated for a slew of Academy Awards a month earlier. Naturally, I was looking forward for some good social satire in the shape of the always reliable clash of the classes theme. Robert Altman had the right pedigree as a director, and I actually liked some of his previous works such as The Player and Dr. T and the Women, so there was some cause for interest there. Also, this was promoted as a story of a classic old Hollywood murder mystery, another motivation to go see it. Boy was I wrong. I can't even start to explain how many things went wrong for me upon watching this train-wreck of a film. For starters, the film was way too talky - not that its bad, but in this case, the endless discussions never actually reached a point. Also, it was very hard to relate to the belated ensemble cast, given the fact they were mostly made up of actors portraying pretentious and extremely dull English snobs, who lead a decadent and obsolete way of life. The movie didn't make me care for any of the characters, want to learn more about them and what motivates them, or give any further attention to their boring tea parties, hunting trips or twisted relations with their butlers and maids.At one point of the film I just began looking at my wrist watch, trying as hard as I can not to fall asleep, waiting for the promised murder mystery to occur so there would be some sort of force of interest to push the plot forward. After all, there is a certain degree of patience one can bare when staring helplessly at yawn-inducing characters talking about ever so boring issues. I felt as though the film was just going on and on with no real plot or point to look forward to at the end of the tunnel. When the foul felony finally took place, I was apathetic towards whatever was happening, that I couldn't care less. It was THAT bad.Thankfully, I gave Altman another chance and really enjoyed A Prairie Home Companion, his final work before passing away. However, that still doesn't erase the fact that Gosford Park is one of the slowest, pointless, dullest, unsatisfying experiences I've had at the cinema. I'm usually into dramas, and I have an incredibly low bar of entertainment &#150; even the most overused clichés in films tend to amuse me the slightest bit. Alas, Gosford park was just a step too far, even for my relatively low standards; as this now sits as one of the worst films I've seen of this decade to date.I gave it a 1/10. "},{"Title":"a long bore","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  nice costumes, good performances, but an EXTREMELY long  movie with an uncreative, unimaginative script. Really misrepresented as a 'mystery' when in fact that is the most trivial, inane thread of the movie. In short, a movie that is much, much less than the sum of its parts. Quite disappointing. "},{"Title":"Filmmakers in Service","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Another Altman film about filmmaking. I wonder why so many people miss this.Balaban is from an old film family and is among the more intellectual men in the business. Altman spends an inordinate amount of time thinking about the art and how he differs from others. And he does. Now you don't have to imagine what they talk about.The conventional approach to high quality visual directing is for it all to emanate as a vision in the author and/or director's mind. The actors are expected to recreate that vision. So when a particularly strong image results, it is because the actor filled in the space in front of the camera. Think of this as actors in service to the director, the employer.Altman is different in a fundamental way. He comes up with a vague sketch of a script descriptions of characters and a situation. He allows the actors to find their own way. The result is often -- as here -- remarkably dense, taught, real. So much finer than can be filtered through several minds. Think of this as the director is service to the actors.Here's where the upstairs/downstairs metaphor comes in.Now think how Altman works with his camera. He has astonishing movement. His legendary reputation as a filmmaker rests primarily on his skill in adding to the effect of the scene by making our eye an active part of what is going on by placing lights and moving the camera. Hitchcock invented this notion, but then he is in that large group of directors who simply boss the actors about. Easy to place the camera right when you know where everything is going to be. But what if you don't? Then you have to be the perfect servant, understanding your masters so thoroughly that you can anticipate what they are going to do.There you have the idea that Balaban and Altman first sketched. Now to make it highly self-referential, what do you do? You set a conventional murder mystery and actually place the filmmaker in the middle of the action, continuously commenting on how this is to be shaped. But he's completely ignorant, hence the references to formulaic Charlie Chan. The real solution would only be known by someone who understands this notion of anticipative service. Enhance the metaphor with notions of `children' from the upstairs through the wombs of the downstairs.More make it obvious that we are talking about the moving camera eye, so actually insert Ivor Novello in the action as `entertainment.' Ivor was in `The Lodger,' Hitchcock's first film where he used this `moving eye' style. His attunement to Ivor's movements (it is a silent film) was what was so remarkable at the time. Notice that Balaban doesn't `shoot.'Altman is not a man of half measures, so make it even more self-referential make one (only one) of the privileged guests disguise himself as a servant, to cross the line. You can't play on both teams.This is not a film about manners, not a costume drama, not a whodunit. The story is about what it is a film about the fluid, anticipative eye, in service to some of the most talented theatrical actors alive. The enjoyment in this film is not in watching the actors, pleasant though that is; it is in watching how we watch the actors and marveling at how our eye becomes part of the `team.'Every actor here, every footman and scullery maid is a better actor than Julia Roberts, who incidentally shot Balaban in the throat in Mexico. Every actor except Ryan Phillippe. He's the white space, the reference point of bland American fare, intended to show us what bad acting is all about. Notice how staid the camera is when following him.It is all heavy symbolism and would be the first thing commented on in a P T Andersen film. But not here. Now that's art. "},{"Title":"Didn't quite do it for me","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes when i see a movie i walk out of the theater with a strange sensation. Not exactly knowing what it was i just watched. It was not great, nor was it bad. And soon, within fifteen minutes of my departure from my seat, do i begin having trouble retelling the story of the movie or even saying what it was about. Gosford Park is one of those movies.Robert Altman certainly shows that he is a very competent film-maker here. Both technically complete as well as narratively interesting this movie is filled with directorial skills. It certainly doesn't lack the actors either, this film is very well acted throughout. Which is not really surprising considering the credits, a long line of fine actors. The story is nothing revolutionary, but quite interestingly told. It's given from two perspectives, first the noble people and then their servants. A relationship that is also causing quite a lot of comedy.So with all that i have recounted above this should be a great movie. Well, i would have to say both yes and no. While i found it to have many qualities there is just something about the whole thing that failed to excite me. Sometimes when i watch a movie i get the feeling that the director has almost worked too hard trying to perfect his style. I get that feeling here. The movie is almost too much, like someone somewhere is trying too hard. Or maybe it's just me. For whatever reasons this polished and well thought-through movie just didn't quite do it for me, even though it was certainly decent entertainment for as long as it lasted. I rate it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Gossip Park","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this exhilarating chambre piece, set in a mansion during the 1930s, Robert Altman meticulously explores the social interaction between the English aristocracy and their servants. Class distinction is demonstrated funnily between the people who live above the stairs and those who live below. It is especially the interaction between the characters, who clearly dislike one another but are forced by circumstance (due to various obligations) to practice social rituals, that provides some of the most amusing cinematic moments. It is all done with clever subtlety.Bob Balaban and Robert Altmann story idea combined with Fellowes's eloquent writing is first rate. The dialogues are filled with wit, humour and subtle depth. The mansion itself plays a key character in the story but it is the spellbinding cinematography that functions as the mansion's eyes. The camera is constantly on the move and the viewer feels like an ignored but curious member of the crowd. Many themes are tackled in the movie but it is done quietly. The film also slowly demonstrates the disintegration of the English class system (that started around the war).Altman has assembled a mountain of talented actors that include a bitchy Maggie Smith, a pompous Michael Gambon, an obnoxious Kristin Scott Thomas, a vulnerable Camilla Rutherford, a desperate Tom Hollander, a devil-may-care Geraldine Somerville, a knows-where-he-stands Jeremy Northam, a douchebag Bob Balaban, a horny Ryan Phillipe, a stupid Stephen Fry, a loyal Sophie Thompson, a principled Helen Mirren, an enigmatic Clive Owen, a no-nonsense Emily Watson, a not-to-be-messed-with Richard E. Grant, a pulling-it-together Derek Jacobi, a frightened Alan Bates, a grumpy Eileen Atkins and an adorable Kelly Macdonald. 'Gosford Park' has one of the best ensemble cast.I also loved the soundtrack. It is never overdone. The jazzy tracks contribute well in setting the atmosphere and there are some wonderful songs performed by Jeremy Northam's character.In the beginning, it is a little difficult to keep up with the names of the characters which leads to a bit of confusion but with a little bit of patience, once you're over that, it becomes easy to follow. Like a beautiful painting, once it captivates the viewers attention it immediately involves them in an alternate world. From the start, you feel like an ignored guest and at the end it's as though the host has just seen you out. "},{"Title":"An excellent period film with an outstanding cast.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This Robert Altman film is one of the best movies of the last decade.  The main plot and many sub-plots appear slow to most uninitiated people, but to those who understand the British class system and its demise will find this a truly gripping and amusing film.  The performances by the mainly British cast is vastly superior to that which would be given by our American friends.Maggie Smith deserves a special mention for her outstanding performance as the aged leech Aunt, and the timing of her lines is immaculate.The only criticism I have of the cast is............why Stephen Fry?? Hugh Laurie would have been more suited to this role.Rating 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Class Act","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a lovingly crafted, beautifully acted ensemble piece set in an English Country House which is superficially a murder mystery.  In reality, it is damning indictment of the class system and the level of servitude expected from those at the top of the tree from those that wait upon them.What was surprising was the level of humour that Altman brings to what is, as it unfolds, a very sad story of transgression and loss.  Maggie Smith has all the funniest lines as a viscious but impoverished woman who comes to her family with begging cap in hand.  Those playing characters above stairs all look and sound the part and effortlessly give the impression of wealth and privelege and the callousness that breeds.Many of the downstairs characters drive the story and there are some wonderfully wry performances from the likes of Richard E Grant and  Alan Bates.  As the moral centre of the film, Kelly McDonald is excellent and is well matched by Emily Watson as Emily and Clive Owen as Parkes.  Ruling the downstairs troop is Helen Mirren whose cool visage hides a seething mass of emotion.  A well deserved nomination here.Only Robert Altman could assemble a cast of this magnitude and distinction and have many of them speak no more than a few lines !  Greats of English theatre like Derek Jacobi have small but memorable roles and there is not a bad note struck from any of the predominantly English cast.I was slightly puzzled by the character played by Ryan Phillipe (although his perforamce was fine) but felt that the intrusion of two Americans into this  English mix worked well to highlight the entrenched class roles played by everyone in the house.Whilst perhaps not his best work, this is a very good Altman film - we move in and out of conversations whilst never losing their import and the cimematography has a fluidity that few other film makers can match.A classy piece of film-making that rewards careful attention from the viewer.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Cast in Unfocused Story Ultimately Unsatisfying","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I know there are many fans of Robert Altman out there, mystifying though that is to me. I did somewhat enjoy Nashville, BUT, his particular style does not leave sufficient time or space on film to develop the characters in any depth, nor do we see any real growth.I had a similar reaction to this film, but found Gosford Park even less satisfying, thanks to the very high hopes I had based on the writing of Julian Fellowes, which has been so magnificent in Downton Abbey, and on the sheer number of extremely talented actors/actresses in the cast. Sadly, all of this talent is wasted in this film. Mr. Altman seems not to have sufficient regard for his audience to feel that it is necessary to actually tell a story.The result for me is a film which doesn't know what it wants to accomplish - will this be a rich, rewarding drama of lives affording us the opportunity to care about intriguing characters, or will this be a brain-teasing British mystery? Sadly, as a mystery it is an epic failure, since the murder in the story and its solution seem not to interest the filmmaker at all and none of it is really resolved. As a British drama, it also fails miserably, in that we don't really get much of the interactions of the characters to learn enough about them to be interested or to care what they do.In fact, I will be forced to muddle through this film a second time (should I even waste my time?) merely to see which character goes with which name. There is no excuse for this sort of sloppiness, regardless of whether that is Robert Altman's personal style or not. Perhaps he just is an incompetent director? I would love to see this film remade with the same cast including an extra 30 minutes of screenplay written by good old J. Fellowes. As it now stands, it doesn't quite add up to a whole story. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the year, at best.  Bring an alarm clock.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only movie I hated more than this film was Vanya on 42nd Street.  The two are very much alike, except Vanya is American and this is British and has a semi-interesting environment.  That's about the only good comment I can scrounge up about this wasted 2.5 hours of my life.I'm generally patient and by no means a single-minded or immature action freak.  I appreciate plot and most of all characters, but this film just didn't cut it for me in the least.  I sat expectantly for about half an hour trying to make sense of the flash-by-flash relationship spaghetti, and once I did I spent the rest of the film not caring about any of it.  Boring, insignificant soapish details, boring characters with very sporadic interjections of almost-funny humor that does nothing.  Folks, I'm not a sadist or anything so don't take this the wrong way, but EVEN THE MURDER WAS BORING.  As for plot, absolutely nothing happened in this film, even with a dead body present.  The ending fell more flat than a week old soda, and throughout the film not so much as a spark toward any climax of any kind happened.  Like Vanya, this is the kind of film that appeals very strongly to realist buffs and dullards, so if you aren't one of those, STAY AWAY. If you must, just visit your doctor and ask him for a few solid shots of ENNUI. "}{"Title":"One of the best films I have ever seen","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was captivating from beginning to end. The exemplary performances by a veritable who's who would certainly be enough, but the film is a complete package. Altman's impeccable directing knits this amazing cast into a true ensemble. The best of British cinema did the film for scale, and sat around on long shooting days because they wanted to. Add to this a realistic and beautiful English setting and a complex, riveting story, and you have a film that can't miss. Anyone who doesn't enjoy this movie should stick to low budget thrillers and cheap summer teenage trifles, because this is a film for those who can understand plot, character, and the human condition. BackStage West gave it Best Ensemble Cast. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Dull, plodding british melodrama","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the latest film from director Robert Altman, which has garnered numerous Oscar nominations... needless to say I was not as impressed..  the film goes on and  on for what seems like forever with scene after scene of borring people talking to each other about nothing of consequence.. in fact the film almost put me to sleep until something FINALLY happens about two hours into what seemed like a 2 1/2 hour movie...  I guess from a tech standpoint, the look of the film is handled well and the stuffy british actors which dominate the proceedings act like stuffy british people.. and Ryan Phillippe looks way out of place in his role... but the film did manage to remind me of why i usualy dont like Altman movies, his last several have just been incredibly dull. GRADE C "},{"Title":"No Lovely Land Of Might Have Been","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers AheadFirst, I do understand the anger directed at this mis-marketed classic. It was sold as a detective film, which it most assuredly is not. The theme is a favorite of Altman's that he returns to with regularity disillusionment. Before you consider watching this penetrating look into the upstairs / downstairs worlds of a landed 'noble,' whose conduct contradicts his title, be warned, it is an existential character study of nobility upstairs and the servant world below them. William has converted his opulent palace into a brothel of sorts, preying upon the servant women then dumping the babies, unceremoniously, in the closest orphanage. Unbeknownst to William, one of his rejected children has returned for vengeance. Secreted amongst the army of attendants waiting on these 'nobles', is the rejected boy who has come to kill William. Trust me, by the end of the movie you won't have a tad of sympathy for him. The only one he shows kindness to is his dog, the humans, all waiting in line for begging from him, he treats with open scorn and contempt. Maggie Smith's Constance steals the movie as the world's richest beggar. Completely helpless, from the opening, her Rolls must be pulled over because she cannot figure out how to get the lid off of a Thermos. Looking down her nose upon everyone, she delights in torturing Northam who plays a famous actor. She cannot tolerate his singing and playing, which are quite good actually, flinging venom all about her. She loves the knife,Say, what do you do when one of your pictures flops like that? If you asked me what Altman's theme is it is contained in the words of Northam's sad ballad,We shall never find that lovely land of might have been. The male servants are not spared bed duties either. Watch for Sylvia putting the arm on Weisman's valet, really his homosexual lover infiltrating the servants for movie research, she instructs him when to return to service her. William revels in torturing his relatives; he boasts to Sylvia how he is going to wait until much later to tell the desperate businessman he is pulling out of his venture. Altman uses some great symbolism here, at the garden party, where William joyfully tells the man he is ruined. Watch for the Bloody Mary cup, which looks like his blood, knocked onto the cement floor. William has got his latest victim, played by Emily Watson, completely deluded that he cares for her. To Altman's credit, the servants are not delineated with the slightest idealization. The two head ladies do not speak to each other except for house business. Again, there is a murder which Altman uses more to show you the Law's differential treatment of the landed rich. The bumbling detective couldn't find his desk in his office. What you see here is just like Kansas City, where the Harlow worshiping woman gets her husband returned to her gutted like a fish by the local gangster. The pair were so sure that he could rob an African American and there was nothing, in the 30's, that he would dare do to them. You see this motif in most of his films MASH, 3 Women disillusionment. Constance will have you throwing things at the screen for she revels in working her servant to death while constantly subjecting everyone to scathing abuse. Even the breakfast fails the standards of the worst richest beggar. Altman is at pains to show their helplessness after decades of being waited upon. They all observe the clock, when Weisman asks for breakfast, it throws them into deep confusion. The best way to review this movie is to ask you if you like deep, misanthropic looks into human groups nobles and servants? The movie took plenty of spleen, as you see here, because people expecting Murder On The Orient Express, were none too pleased to be in the middle of Altman's dissection of humans, their cruelty and, also, their secrets. Altman always rivaled Kubrick for his deep misanthropy which is always present. A movie that opens with,Suicide is painless, it brings on many changes and I can give or take it as I please. Northam's song is quite evocate of that MASH anthem. The verses contain the movie's central message the cruelty of human society and what a contrast it is to their delusions about its putative warmth. This features his usual excellent acting with a truly one of a kind cast. Yes, my friends, upon this earth we shall never find that lovely land of might have been. An Excellent Movie. Q.E.D.Though We Travel The World Over To Find The Beautiful, We Must Carry It With Us Or We Find It Not. Ralph Waldo Emerson "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A fantastic cast under the superb direction of Robert Altman is absolutely wondrous in this great film. With a standout performance of unequaled simmering sexuality by Emily Watson, this is a incredible look into a bygone era and a clash between both cultures and classes. The script deserved the Oscar it won and certainly the ensemble award from SAG can not be argued with. However, Emily Watson should have received an Oscar nomination for setting the screen on fire once again with a performance that proves what a truly gifted actor she is. The way she captures the flesh and blood of her character is astonishing and as an example of some of her earlier work, it shows prophetically the path of greatness she has followed throughout her cinema career. As a supporting player or the lead, Watson never fails to give a performance that leaves audiences stunned by her talent. "},{"Title":"A splendid  testament film of Robert Altman","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In 2001 Robert Altman returned to what he is a director of great films and a great author. Here is the history of observation, analysis and review of a particular social class in an enclosed space. Something awfully like what did Luis Buñuel in his haunting and claustrophobic The Exterminating Angel in 1962 where a bourgeois after attending a dinner at one of its members , saw with terror as an unseen force not allow them to leave the premises .In this film by Robert Altman, his best years and greatly influenced by Agatha Christie, attended an elegant and convincing portrait of English society in the early 30s. In Gosford Park mansion we see the difficult interaction between aristocrats and service personnel. Much credit ribbon has unbeatable deal available where young players with veterans of the scene, performers from Hollywood with renowned English actresses with clear vocation theatrical mix. And to this must be added the setting absolutely masterful Altman scene. Psychological stress reaches really high points without major dramatic effects or great fanfare.Clearly the recreation of wartime Britain is really splendid, especially with regard to sets and costumes. It is very difficult to shoot indoors with a single location, but only the great masters of cinema have taken advantage of the benefits of shooting in an enclosed space. One can cite a couple of examples Rope by Alfred Hitchcock or Death and the Maiden or by Roman Polanski, The Exterminating Angel by Luis Buñuel. It's the details, the looks and gestures that make the difference provided all seasoned operative with a solid script and got the Oscar.In its day, Gosford Park pleasantly surprised and did remember the good work of Robert Altman, lost for too long. Fortunately in the twilight of his days gave us this interesting and complex film, a testament downright exquisite. "},{"Title":"A slow, thoroughly British look at class and country life with a bit of murder thrown in - 86%","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" While it's never floated my boat, Downton Abbey nevertheless has plenty of fans as over nine million UK viewers caught the premiere of its third season on TV. It might well be a well-produced drama of the sort the UK excels at but personally, I find such costumed outings rather dour, plodding affairs. However, this movie - with its Agatha Christie-style country house and a cast-list for the ages - offers something a little different. It still feels a little slow but it offers an authentic look at class, privilege and gender politics. It's also brilliantly written, directed and performed and is probably Roger Altman's best film after MASH.In 1932, Sir William McCordle (Michael Gambon) and his trophy wife Sylvia (Kristen Scott Thomas) invite a number of guests over for a shooting weekend. Among their guests are matinée idol Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam) and his Hollywood producer friend Morris Weissman (co-producer Bob Balaban) as well as the Countess of Trentham (Maggie Smith) and her maid-servant Mary (Kelly MacDonald). As the weekend goes on, Sir William has to fend off constant attempts to secure his fortune from his guests while the gossiping house-staff, led by his butler Jennings (Alan Bates) and housekeeper Mrs Wilson (Helen Mirren), ensure that the weekend goes as smoothly as possible. Before long, a murder is committed but who is the guilty party? Is it head house-maid Elsie (Emily Watson) who has something to hide? Could it be enigmatic valet Mr Denton (Ryan Phillippe) or charismatic loner Parks (Clive Owen), the valet of Lord Stockbridge (Charles Dance)? Hopefully, Inspector Thomson (Stephen Fry) and his constable companion Dexter (Ron Webster) can crack the case before all the guests have to return home...Like most murder mysteries, Gosford Park spends a lot of time filling the screen with details both relevant and irrelevant. In fact, the murder is arguably the most surprisingly thing about the film as so much time is spent with both upstairs with the party-goers and downstairs with the staff that it almost feels like a documentary at times. To prevent boredom from completely taking over, the film injects a good deal of humour into proceedings - Smith's cantankerous countess is witty and loaded with barbed asides while Fry's detective is as gloriously aloof as those he interviews, maintaining an almost Clouseau-like ignorance of the facts presented to him. But all the cast are superb - I've never seen this many British stars at once outside of a Harry Potter film - but this is a true ensemble piece as dialogue blends together to further enhance the authentic feel of the film. The script, penned by Downton Abbey creator Julian Fellowes, leaves just enough to keep you guessing but because it spends so long setting the crime up, you sort of feel as though he's more concerned about writing a period piece as opposed to a mystery.Although it won't be to everyone's taste, Gosford Park feels like a big-screen outing for Mrs Marple but without the silver-haired sleuth in attendance. Yes, it's brilliantly made and at times very funny but I wanted a bit more pace to proceedings. I honestly felt that once every red herring imaginable had been planted in the first hour-and-a-bit, Fellowes simply worked out yet another possibility and wrote that as the ending. And to be frank, the climax felt a little rushed and the least believable bit of the picture as nobody actually seems that bothered that they've spent the weekend with a murderer in their midst. Still, credit must go towards the look of the film which is spot-on and the actors who are all magnificent. In truth, the film is less a murder-mystery and more a realistic portrayal of life in a country house in the early 1930's. Fellowes almost feels nostalgic for such a time when ladies knew their place, their men could be utter cads without them batting an eyelid and both were wholly reliant on their staff, who held them in mock-respect as though their livelihoods depended on it - which they did, of course. It is as British as Earl Grey tea, cucumber sandwiches and strawberries and cream at Wimbledon - something which appeals more to foreign markets more than the UK where I'm from. After all, if the TV series Midsomer Murders can be a global hit... "},{"Title":"Misfire","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman's kaleidoscopic storytelling can yield a masterpiece like Nashville, or the brilliantly raucous M*A*S*H. But what in those films was inspired chaos is, in Gosford Park, just chaos. And all the King's horses and all the King's men (to say nothing of the knights, ladies and other A-list British actors who mostly comprise the sterling cast) couldn't put Gosford together again.The idea of creating one movie from several familiar English story lines no doubt seemed tasty to Altman and his collaborators Bob Balaban and Julian Fellowes. They set out to present a scathing examination of the upper class in that time-honored setting&#151;a shooting party&#151;using an Upstairs/Downstairs-style format, and encase it all in an Agatha Christie-esquire drawing room murder plot, with a John Cleese-y bumbling inspector thrown in for good measure. If this sounds like too much, it is. The movie is pulled in so many directions, it never gets anywhere. While some of the class satire is wickedly well done, the murder story is given perfunctory treatment. The subplots explaining why several none-too-suspicious suspects want the victim dead are so forgettable, and carelessly presented, you get the idea that Altman himself doesn't really care. The revelation of the real killer seems more an afterthought than a climax. And Stephen Fry's incongruous, idiotic investigator seems mistakenly edited in from another movie.Trying to tell too many stories at once isn't the only problem afflicting Gosford Park. It also suffers from too many characters. While the many roles in Nashville were as deftly and distinctly drawn as Hirschfeld caricatures, Gosford is confusing in its superfluity of indistinguishable minor parts.The frustrations noted are lightened by the many fine performances. Clive Owen, Eileen Atkins, Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren earn top honors, with honorable mentions to Kristen Scott Thomas, Jeremy Northram, Michael Gambon, Ryan Phillippe, Emily Watkins and Richard E. Grant. Alan Bates and Derek Jacobi are also on hand to ensure that Gosford Park offers the most spectacular cast assembled since Murder on the Orient Express.All in all, not unenjoyable, but a very mixed bag. "},{"Title":"Too many Robert Altman cooks spoil the broth...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  and too many Upstairs/Downstairs characters in search of a plot ruin any chances for GOSFORD PARK to be anything more than a handsome piece of filmmaking, shallow at the core while pretending to be a British gothic mystery. You'll need a scoreboard to keep track of the wide assortment of quirky characters, none of whom is given enough time to register fully.All of them are either cynical upperclass snobs given to cruel bits of gossip about each other or lowerclass servants who can only talk incessantly and indiscreetly about their masters and indulge in snide gossip of their own. Thrown into the mix is an American (Ryan Phillippe) who serves as director Robert Altman's chance to show how indiscriminate and non-snobbish Americans are by having him sleep with every available person in the household, whether servant or society, male or female.Handsome atmosphere, elegant settings, a bit of intrigue and an unpleasant main character (destined to be murdered by someone in true mystery fashion) are not compensation enough for a story that leaves us unsatisfied with its conclusion. There are superb performances by Maggie Smith, Ryan Phillippe, Kristin Scott Thomas, Helen Mirren, Derek Jacoby and others in roles not fully fleshed out thanks to a relentlessly murky screenplay. The cynicism of Robert Altman is apparent in every frame.Slow paced and ultimately unsatisfying both as entertainment and for those who think they are going to see a good old-fashioned mystery. The dialogue is a crisp putdown by both the snobbish uppercrusters and the servants of every conceivable person within the household, leaving one with a nasty feeling that back in 1932 the British class system was even more poisonous than it is nowadays. "},{"Title":"An insight to a way of living that really sucked.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was by far the slowest moving movie of the year. I liked this movie. I will buy it when it comes out for sale, but it is quite sad to think that it got nominated for Best Picture. Thank God it didn't win. It really shows what life was like back in 1930s Britian. And as I said, it really sucked. The movie itself did not suck, just some of the slow parts. Which was most of the movie, but still I found some of the parts to be quite interesting. It takes about an hour for things to get moving. Stephen Fry was no doubt the funniest person in the movie. Him and Maggie Smith who always manages to be sarcastic. The end has a slight twist. But when I say 'slight'- I mean slight. This idea has been made into about a hundred different movies. So, let's just say that this movie isn't fun. And it isn't different. If you think that this movie keeps the viewer interested, then go and hang yourself behind your shed. 3/5 "},{"Title":"A Difficult, but Highly Rewarding Film.","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" First, Gosford Park is not a film for dim bulbs. It takes an active, attentive, inquisitive mind to grasp its value and achievements, and if you're someone who simply wants to be amused with films, then stay away. It's much too detailed and nuanced for you to appreciate its subtleties, and it will simply bore you.Yes, it's lengthy, but it also takes it time in order to place all of the pieces of the mystery together and make the proper connections between characters. And it can be difficult to understand the dialogue due to the heavy accents and Altman's chaotic, overlapping style, but the work pays off with an emotionally devastating, but satisfying, conclusion. "}{"Title":"I disagree...this is awful","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm very surprised at the relatively high rating (7.3 as of this writing) that this film garnered. There is so much wrong with this film.First, there is no character to like...to root for. In fact, as I got into the film I actually thought that whether one was talking about the upper class or the servants, I was so glad for the Revolutionary War separating us from the mother country! Second, it's waaaaaay too loooooooooooooong. You can easily separate this film into two parts -- pre and post murder. The pre-murder portion -- about half the movie -- could have been cut in half. The post-murder portion of the movie is somewhat interesting, but 2 hours and 17 minutes was simply too long.Third, and related to the previous item...it's very slow and plodding, and reminded me of British films of the past that crawled along at a snail's pace.Fourth, can't the Brits do anything but mumble? Oddly enough, the cast is quite interesting. Too bad the characters they played weren't interesting, as well. Here you have fine actors such as Alan Bates, Michael Gambon, Derek Jacobi, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, and Maggie Smith in roles that are just plain boring with very little character development. And BTW, Northam's role was so inconsequential I can't even remotely think of why he would have taken the role.I guess I should attempt to think of something good to say about this film. Okay, it's warmly photographed with rich sets.I heartily do not recommend this film. My pulse rate actually dropped watching it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Acting! Brilliant Writing! Brilliant Directing!","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's not just because I have seen virtually every Merchant-Ivory/A & E/BBC/PBS costume drama and period mystery and spent a summer in junior high reading every Agatha Christie mystery that I think Gosford Park is terrific.Robert Altman commissioned Juilian Fellowes (Lord Angus for Monarch of the Glen fans so of course he could also advise on etiquette during filming) for a script with very specific guidelines to work within the bounds of a genre satire. (We are spared one of the usual easy target pickings, the Fascist sympathies of the aristocracy, by fixing the shooting party weekend as taking place very specifically in 1932.)The ensemble character acting and camera movement are simply masterful -- with Altman's mandate that we only see scenes that the downstairs folk pass through or are in, equating them with the spying camera, and us, too, of course. If these names weren't already a Who's Who of British (and two American) actors, each of their key scenes would be one of those star making break-outs. In an interview Altman noted that he intentionally made most of the biggest stars downstairs, though our guide through the very confusing relationships upstairs and downstairs is a newcomer, Mary Macdonald (interestingly the first actress cast for the film), representing the audience. Roger Ebert pointed out how key the performance is of another relative newcomer, Claudie Blakley as a put-upon parvenu, in putting the relationships into relief, particular the changes the weekend has wrought on the participants. While Maggie Smith seems to stand out because her character is noisier, a fellow actress protested in an interview that Smith did not in fact get the best lines -- she just did more with them -- like what she does to the phrase day-old marmalade. Spotlighting particular performances could be endless -- though of course I got a kick out of two of my favorites, Clive Owen, who fairly radiates sexuality here, and Ryan Phillippe, playing for both teams, plus Richard Grant's smirks are priceless. Helen Mirren is startlingly different than so many of her other roles.The class differences even amusingly extend to the investigating policemen. The inclusion of Bob Balaban as a Hollywood producer (and co-producer of this movie) also opens up the film to Hollywood and American jokes. The movie is really laugh out loud funny, and the full house I saw it with really got into it, particularly the visual jokes and overheard lines. It quickly spins serious as the camera restlessly glides throughout the house -- the actors had to stay in character throughout all the scenes, adding chitchat to the script, as they had no idea where the camera would be. Until the credits, I had no idea that Ivor Novello was a real songwriter, sung and played here charmingly by Jeremy Northam, and the characters' various reactions to his typical pop music of the day are a key element to the film.Three cheers to a 76-year-old director! Experience can count.(originally written 1/20/2002) "},{"Title":"This movie is working on multiple levels","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For roughly the first two thirds of this movie, I found it slow. The acting was good, but the contrast between the upstairs aristocracy and the servants below seemed a bit obvious and the plot didn't seem to be going anywhere interesting. Then it began to dawn on me that there was much more going on. I'll just touch on one interesting point (SPOILERS BELOW). The Emily Watson character, in the bath, says, Why is it all about them? She's referring to the aristocracy and how the servants get their vicarious enjoyment through them. Yet the whole point is that it was NOT all about them. The employers are often begging their servants to hear the gossip. The employers are the ones who must sit respectfully while music is playing; the servants get to dance. And, ultimately, one of the aristocrats is murdered because of the affairs of the servants. It's a particularly nice touch that the Kristen Scott Thomas character is only dimly aware that such affairs are going on and dismisses them as irrelevant, even after they have just turned her life upside down. The movie came together in a way I found very satisfying. As others have said, it is NOT about the murder mystery. I wouldn't recommend this to everyone, but I'm anxious to watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie meets Robert Altman","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's 1932 England and murder occurs at a remote country estate with a huge amount of guests.  Who did it?The murder doesn't occur until over an hour into the film and, before that, it's pure Altman.  Characters talking constantly, LOTS of overlapping dialogue...usually I love his films, but I had a hard time getting into this one.  For one thing, all the actors are British (with the sole exceptions of Bob Balaban and Ryan Phillippe--sporting a really stupid Scottish accent) so it's sometimes hard to make it what they're saying.  The first hour contained a lot of dialogue that was simply unintelligible.  After the first hour, I got a handle on the accents and was able to follow it.The murder isn't the main focus--it's mostly about class consciousness (servants and the rich people)--nothing new is said but it's all still very interesting.  The acting helps immensely.  They have a huge gathering of very good British actors.  Emily Watson, in particular, is superb as a very feisty maid.  Maggie Smith is, as always, great--but hasn't she played the mean old rich woman once too often?  Clive Owen is--interesting.  He's certainly good-looking but seems somewhat stiff in his role (although that's how it should be played).  The worst acting is easily from Phillippe--get some acting lessons bud!Also, blessedly, there's no gratuitous female nudity in this film--Altman seems to usually have a thing for having his actresses strip for no good reason--he held back this time.  Why this film has an R rating I can't say.  No nudity, no sex, the murder is bloodless and there's no swearing.  So why the R?All in all, not top-notch Altman but still pretty good. "},{"Title":"Only the English can keep you captivated on 1 hour of foreplay","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I cannot believe how I was captivated, rewinding seconds I've missed 1 hr before the murder was committed. Normally I would have fast forwarded or Googled the synopsis. There was no useless actor. I mean if Clive Owen and Ryan Phillippe are reduced to valets, you know this is composed of heavy hitters.The plot and hidden motives are so complicated. You need to watch this 2-3 times. Do not discount anyone and you may be lucky guessing whodunit before the detective arrived.Also after watching it so many times, I still am confused where everything is. And I think being aware of the floor plan can help you guess early.This is Downton Abbey meets Midsomer Murders. I have abandoned Agatha Christie type plots a while ago but I think i am making a comeback. "},{"Title":"We shall never find that lovely land of might-have-been.","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jeremy Northam's voice instantly hypnotizes the cooks, maids, and footmen at Gosford Park. He lifts their spirits, they forget themselves, and for a moment all work ceases. The irony here is that because they're so entranced they fail to grasp the song's meaning, which is about hopeless longing and dreams unfulfilled. It puts smiles on their faces anyway, but has no effect at all on the upstairs guests, who spend so much energy posturing that they can't seem to recognize the value of any of the many graces offered to them. The downstairs staff certainly appreciates the entertainment, since they toil day and night over details like the distance between the knife and the fork, and whether strawberry marmalade will suffice when the raspberry jam runs out. 'The perfect servant has no life,' declares Mrs. Wilson, and while her pride is admirable, her sacrifice is tragic. What a shame, giving all of your time away to dote on people who don't themselves seem to know how to live, either.The super wealthy can't be entirely blamed for their plight, which I think stems from loneliness. People tend to behave oddly around the rich and famous&#x97;they get nervous, begin putting on an act, or trying so hard not to that they clam up. Like a highway patrol cop in traffic, the presence of esteem inspires everyone close by to alter their behavior. It makes sense then that the rich prefer to surround themselves with hired help who are paid to behave respectfully rather than go out into the world and live their lives in public. Their wealth affords them the illusion of a public life in a private and controlled setting. The danger is that after spending years dealing primarily with one's own servants, one might become incapable of dealing with anyone else&#x85; even, say, an inspector who needs help solving a murder.Consider the inspector's interactions with the guests. They treat him like the pizza delivery guy. They talk at him flippantly, begrudge him a moment for questioning, and fail to summon a shred of helpful information. This apparent insubordination is more out of apathy than defiance, and the inspector isn't blameless either. He treats witnesses with kid gloves, allows himself to be interrupted but never himself interrupts. I imagine that he would have more vigorously interrogated potential witnesses had the murder occurred in a poor or middle class district, but he behaves submissively when dealing with the guests at Gosford Park.Attending a shooting party like this one is an exercise in straddling that line between intent and image. Image obscures intent, so it must be hard, being a wealthy host, to trust whether guests are attending out of true friendship. We, the audience, can certainly be sure that they are not because of the film's fly on the wall point of view. We quickly become aware of their disparate natures, that they only harmonize in their collective effort to remain in the good graces of Sir William. To open up to each other is to risk exposure or embarrassment, so distance is crucial to maintain a safe proximity. These aren't friends; these are satellites in tow. I makes sense, then, that when Sir William is killed and an inspector starts asking questions, no investigative headway is made. This is because as far as the guests are concerned, with Sir William gone there is no longer any need to engage. It's time to float away, like debris in outer space.The idea of behavior obscuring motive is relatively foreign to Americans. I recently hosted an English traveler who needed a couch to crash on, and he told me that in English culture, protocol of behavior is of the utmost importance. We can enslave entire cultures, but we'll do it with a stiff upper lip, while we have our afternoon tea, he said. I believe Americans tend to flaunt our motives more overtly, embody them. It's seen as a sign of virtue when a salesman embodies salesmanship, an athlete competition, a computer whiz nerd-dom. I feel (and this is pure conjecture) that to embody 'good manners' is valued but not to the degree that it is in Europe, particularly England. In America, we are almost suspicious of those whose intentions aren't clear. Consider the way characters in reality shows interact. Their behavior is motivated by primordial urges&#x97;chiefly, the urge to impose their personality. The line 'I'm not here to make friends' seems to be a reoccurring catchphrase. Gosford Park operates by almost opposing values America's brand of 'reality' is best concealed so that the surface always appears squeaky clean. I would guess that even a non-English speaker, having spent a weekend with the casts of any of the new 'real world' shows, would walk away with a pretty good understanding of who those people are simply because the personalities are so unabashed. Yet I feel as though a fellow English speaker, even a thoughtful and aware individual, could spend a weekend at Gosford Park and walk away thinking only of how charming the affair was, but having no clue as to what was really going on.Despite all of this I can't agree with the film's outlook, an outlook I would call altogether cynical. The alternative to the lifestyle of affluence is a lifestyle of needs-based living. For years I lived minimally, considering excess a burden and ambition a form of avarice, and you know maybe I wasn't wrong. But if we must rise with each new day, I don't see the harm in striving for some form of highness, even if illusory, as long as an attempt is made towards balance. This film is about the imbalance, the extremity of Postbellum English aristocracy. It emphasizes the evils and the folly that wealth and servitude cause without acknowledging that wealth is simply the end result of something inherently good. It doesn't express the reality that if we didn't posture whatsoever, we would be left crawling. "},{"Title":"An English manor house is the setting for this brilliantly-crafted whodunit, which is as much about the manners and mores of  Britain before WW II.","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A perfect boutique movie in every way- casting, acting, set, script,direction, everything. The music is the icing on the cake. And, like a cake, there are layers to it. Every time I watch it, I get something more from it. A brilliant idea executed brilliantly. All the actors are those characters to the tee. Dame Maggie, ever the quintessential snob; Dame Helen, mysterious to the end. Oh that there were more movies like this, that transport one so completely to another time and place. Watch it on in a rainy afternoon when you want nothing more than that. Julian Fellowes cut his script- writing teeth on this one, and it's clear to see why Downtown Abbey was bound to be a success. ( only one detraction- the dialogue is a little too quick to catch at times on my VHS version) "},{"Title":"A Layered Labyrinth Satire on Servitude","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This Film should come with Warnings. Multi-Oscar Nominations and Critical Acclaim send Viewers to this with High Expectations. To be Honest, it is not a Movie for Everyone. It is a Niche of Sorts, like a Slasher Movie, or a David Lynch Film. It should come as no Surprise because throughout Director Robert Altman's Long Career He never made Movies for the Mainstream, although some such as M*A*S*H (1970) and The Player (1992) did become Huge and Popular Successes. But the Anti-Hollywood Altman never made much of an Effort to be Accepted and was Proud to be out-there-somewhere.This is a Study of the English Caste System with its Hypocrisy and Arrogance on Full Display. The Movie's Movement comes from Acting, Dialog, and Snobs who are Stuffy, Stodgy, and Grandly Grotesque. The Patriarch of the Gathering is one who has Made His Money from Sweatshops, all the while Impregnating the Female Workforce and sending the Unwanted Babies to Orphanages. His House, as were all such Houses, Gestapo Esque and the Non-Respect and No-Regard for the Servants was Legendary. These People, Altman seems to say, are so Despicable that Assassination is in Order.The Film is a Layered Labyrinth of Characters and Corridors with Dry Humour and Impeccable Design, Masterfully Written, Directed, and Presented. You might want to do a Moticum of Research on this one before you Attempt, because it does Require Patience, and Curiosity of the Time-Space to be Entertaining. For those willing to give it a go, this is a Rewarding Retro-Style that Invites Multiple Viewings. "},{"Title":"Slight and often uninteresting, although not without any merit at all; Gosford Park is, in more ways than one, an enigma.","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park is Robert Altman having a crack at adapting the game of Cluedo, is it not? Hold on a minute, there was a library in Cluedo, wasn't there? There's no library in the Gosford Park house. At least, I didn't see one... Whatever, the point being that there is a murder at the core of this lavish, period piece from 2001 and a handful of people of varying genders; backgrounds; nationalities and classes all caught up in this stately locale facing down the barrel of a charge. Alas, I wanted to like the film more than I did; eventually finding myself to be worn down by the film's run time and its excessive amount of characters depicted therein, where in the past I have often taken to Altman projects feeding off such things. And yet it doesn't have any right to often be as engaging as it sometimes is - unlike a game of Cluedo, the death at the heart of Gosford Park is inconsequential; it is ultimately about the people and the talking, the dialogue driven scenes depicting a bygone British class system nattering away about not much in particular but doing well to side us with the perspective of a young female maid engaging with her infirm, snobbish elderly boss. I wanted a film about them. In a sense, we get one; in another sense, it isn't anything to do with them. The imbalance is cause for frustration.Dignitaries of all sorts and of differing ilks are gathering at a huge country estate in 1930's England; they're there for a weekend of hunting and whatnot at the behest of their host, Michael Gambon. Like most of Gambon's characters, the host is brash and loud and swans around the place coming across as being in control without necessarily having to do much. He likes to shoot birds for sport; enjoys the presence of the young female maids at his home (especially when they're wearing what they wear) and isn't generally much in the way of a bang-up guy. The ship that is the manor house is run so tightly under his watch, that should certain maids be caught on the incorrect storey, severe ramifications would unfold.All is not well away from the host and his friends either. Within certain couples staying at the lodge for the duration, arguments are arising and there is a general sense of both distrust and unease amongst everyone as this disparate congealed unit consisting of this body of personnel gear up for exquisite dinners; rich company and the pleasures that apparently come with being able to go out on a hunt and shoot stuff the sort of things that need to run smoothly so as to even have a hope of working. A good deal of it does consist of people both sitting and standing around; talking, eating, arguing and switching between their public personas and private personas faces and attitudes their friends know them for, as well as such things for which their closer peers know them. When the time comes for Gambon's character to die at the bereft of one of those present, there is room for most to be a suspect; in spite of Altman's guile to cut to a specific few people looking shifty and suspicious as they re-enter the lounge wherein everybody congregated away from the crime scene.For most, the idea of a film wherein a lone murder doesn't have to, or need to, constitute as the focal point around which the entire film must hinge will sound like a masterstroke of film-making; pacing, et al. I found it engaging without being riveting, a matter of style over substance for a great deal of its time. The film is more a snapshot of what a smattering of folks, typical to 1930's Great Britain, at a manor retreat for a weekend of hunting and fine dining might resemble. The rummaging around for a narrative; an event anything gives way to something as jarring as a death that's not even the focal point of the piece in the first place. We don't mind this, of course, but apart from Kelly Macdonald's scenes with her elderly employer, played by Maggie Smith, we are scrapping around for scant consolation in terms of plot and character, with these specific sequences becoming beacons upon which we grasp for any kind of interest. Macdonald is better than what her job says she is someone curious where curiosity in a young woman is frowned upon; someone outgoing and looking to engage, someone working for Smith's character not out of respect or because Smith can boss her around with consummate ease (although she does), but because she comes cheap. There is an amusing self-aware, sub-The Player skit nearer the beginning of the film, arriving in the form of an American character pitching an idea for a detective story which eerily begins to sync up with what's transpiring before everyone something with a similarly subversive idea to that of The Player, but not unfolding in a film quite as good. Ah yes, The Player THERE was a film. "},{"Title":"Follower and Precursor","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film came to my notice as kin to Downton Abbey in roots and genre. The added murder mystery element is sub to the whole, and a bit of a comic element along the lines of Clouseau in execution. If they did not intend the inspector to be bumbling, they greatly bumbled, because he certainly was. This requires multiple viewings for its multiple layers. Clearly a well done film for its type and subject, a follower to some (Upstairs Downstairs) and precursor to others, such as Abbey. There is much on this posting to give the technical mumbo jumbo should you be interested in that. The film takes the current day license with portrayal of lower forms of human dealings and communication, and is pretty cynical. One catches glimpses of the upper side of the human heart nevertheless. Again, it requires multiple viewings. "}{"Title":"Brilliant cast of characters...inspiration for Downton Abbey","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was initially drawn to this movie by the excellent cast, mainly British, and period setting, 1930's English country estate, of this powerful film. But the movie turned out to be much more...excellent character studies, dialogue, shrewd observations of the class system and a plot that exposes the linkages between the disparate group that comes together on one weekend in November 1932. The guests and their entourage of servants give a masterly demonstration of the English class system at work with its many protocols and unwritten rules. One can see how it was the inspiration for the television series Downton Abbey with relationships and codes of conduct parallel to what turns up in the current TV saga. In their gossip and the petty details that dominate their lives, we find that underneath their respective roles, these individuals, both the servants or aristocrats, are not really very different form one another. Ironically, the servants are as much the creatures of habit upholding the system, as are the rich and titled who are often not very rich and struggling to hold on to their status. There were enough tongue-in-cheek lines to keep me entertained from start to finish.The movie also shows the world and attitudes of the old order British aristocracy clashing with the new money class from the American film world. There are few references to the world outside that was being torn asunder in the 1930's by depression and impending war. This is the one flaw I found in an otherwise splendid production. The story hinges on the working class victims of the master of the estate, who systematically covered his misdeeds at their expense. There is a murder mystery but it occurs well into the movie. It further highlights the insecurities and vanities of almost everyone in the household.Maggie Smith was brilliant in her role, delivering her lines in a way that mocked the very character she played. The acting of Kelly MacDonald (Boardwalk Empire/HBO), as the personal assistant to Maggie Smith's Lady Trentham, was impressive. We are also treated to the acting of Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott-Thomas, Eileen Atkins, Allan Bates, Helen Mirren, Emily Watson, Clive Owen, Charles Dance, Jeremy Northam, Derek Jacobi, and others. All in all, a great movie but with the emphasis on dialogue and acting, it may not be to the liking of all movie-goers. I have seen it on three occasions and would happily watch it again. But I have to confess that I like historical fiction with a large dose of soap opera. "},{"Title":"Upstairs Downstairs Suspense!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't expecting this film to be this good. I mean when you hear of a movie starring a lot of major actors, you know by experience it should be a bomb. I was glad to be wrong. I LOVED THIS MOVIE. The storyline, actors, cinematography, all wonderful. The film shows both the lives of the British uppercrust and of their devoted and loyal servants. Some giving more than they should, some taking a great deal and giving nothing back. There are lies, coverups, jealousy, intrigue, sex, and finally murder. Everyone was terrific here, especially Maggie Smith and Kelly McDonald, Helen Mirren and Eileen Atkins.The only thing that would stop me from giving this a 10 was the middle when it sort of slowed to a crawl. After the murder it picked right back up. I bought this film for my collection and will watch it often. I highly recommend give this a try.  "},{"Title":"Not THAT subtle.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First, out with the confession. I watched it on DVD with the subtitles, and played back quite a number of times in order to read every word. May be that spoiled the film for me, because by the time of the murder I knew there were four people who had very good reasons to commit it, three more who had weaker reasons and potentially more people who hated the guy. So I expected some likes of `Murder on the Orient Express'. The murder scene shown in the film was a huge giveaway, so at that time I KNEW there would be some likes of `Orient Express'. One suspect was VERY OBVIOUS.By the time of the murder I guessed almost all personal histories and connections explained in the very end, all the important ones anyhow. There are PLENTY of very obvious hints if you can manage to hear or read every word. There are many clues altogether, but somehow the ones that turn out true are much stronger and more believable from the beginning, so the wrong ones don't hinder your guesswork. So as far as mystery is concerned, there is not much of it the film.How about the social life of British aristocracy and their servants? Don't know about you, but in my school I was taught from grade four (the first year we had history) that aristocracy, or any ruling class before the dictatorship of the proletariat, was stupid, idle, self-absorbed, while the lower classes were honest, loyal, patriotic, hard-working and selfless. So that message didn't sound very original or believable for me either. As a formerly brainwashed person, I don't appreciate anything that resembles the ideas that were once stuffed into my head. Until the very end of the film I expected a miracle &#150; a plot twist. It didn't happen. And here is the real twist despite of all said above I really enjoyed watching the film. Acting was superb, Scottish accent as lovely as smooth jazz, cinematography, and just the whole mood was interesting and captivating. I do recommend watching it, but I think you will benefit tremendously from renting a DVD and reading subtitles.  "},{"Title":"Why this may be Altman's greatest film...and easily one of the best of 2001.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"   Let me start out by saying this is not a film for people that do not like or understand filming. This is not a normal murder mystery. In fact, its not even about the murder. Its about the characters! If you are used to normal popcorn flicks and know nothing nor care about huge ensemble pieces, directing, or characterization you probably will not appreciate this film for its powers. Save your money. It will probably bore you.  Robert Altman introduces a wide range of aristocrats and their servants and spends three-fourth of his film letting them show you their various personalities through their interactions with each other. And he's devilishly subtle about it leaving dialogue and visuals low-key when they should be. People who have already seen this film should make a special note to remember how each single character was practically introduced in some shape or form. There is almost not a person staying at Gosford Park that does not get their word in and does not add to the intrigue of the plot. The storyline is set with people who have motives to kill and subtle hints are given to the reasonings of the killer...but the killer remains to be known until the end and by then you don't mind the killer or his/her reasonings.   This is perhaps the best casted ensemble piece I have ever seen. Every person is their character. Every person is believable. Helen Mirren's performance is a near flawless example of an affective quiet role. Maggie Smith was perfectly casted as the snippy Aunt Constance. Kristen Scott Thomas plays the uber-bitch lady of the house to the t. The list goes on... I almost felt that AMPAS could have filled the Best Supporting Actress category with women from this film and been perfectly justified.  This is a new Altman classic that I hope is not ignored for years to come. A nine of ten in my eyes. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's finest","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's been said that the closer one is to a subject, the harder it becomes to be  totally objective. This might go to explain why it's taken an American to truly  delineate the social mores of the British upper class between the two great wars  of last century. To show us in well observed minutia, the difference between the  classes - the upper, and the lower - the so-called 'upstairs & downstairs'mentality that permeated all classes of British society at that time, and probably  does to this day. Gosford Park is an ensemble piece - there is no star billing, just a list of the  cream of England's acting talent. Everybody is magnificent; and it's a tribute to  the actors that none try to out-perform the other; in fact, although I've seen Alan  Bates in countless films, it truly took me a while to put a name to the face. I'll  leave to others to give a plot synopsis, suffice it to say that even with a running  time of over two and a half hours, it still, to me, ends too soon. "},{"Title":"Patience rewarded","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film that probably needs to be seen more than once. It is a great, measured, complex Persian carpet of a film, with a huge cast and an initially bewildering array of characters. If the viewer does not pay attention, it would be easy to be dismissive about it, because although it is a long film at over two hours, by contemporary standards not much seems to happen. The film's value is in the authentic performances of the entire cast and the interactions between them.Watch out particularly for Richard E. Grant's gleefully sadistic footman, Stephen Fry as the police inspector and Kelly Macdonald's subtle performance as Mary. But really, everybody is good in this, not a bad performance in the ensemble. "},{"Title":"Memorable ending justifies Fellowes' Oscar nod","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the type of film which spends a great deal on apparent trivialities, but which leads to a surprisingly memorable conclusion. Obviously, it is about life above & below stairs during a country shoot in 1932. What made the ending so satisfying, was the intelligent way the two different strands converged.It is easy to see why Robert Altman did not win an Oscar for his direction and why Julian Fellowes did for his screenplay. Altman at times gets carried with his characters; the first hour sped by and it was difficult to grasp all the dialogue as scenes flitted by.The film gradually settles and there are some great moments; one being Ivor Novello (Northam) playing his repertoire to a sometimes unappreciative audience whilst the servants peer hidden from doorways rapt in attention or dance together in a darkened room.Some have said that the murder mystery is incidental - who cares who murdered who etc,it's the social interaction which counts etc- but for me, it was the highlight esp. the explanation, which cleverly linked characters above & below the stairs. All I will say is that the murderers prove a surprise & it's a case of revenge by the exploited upon their masters.Kelly MacDonald is excellent in her role as the innocent young maid initiated into the truth about the apparently respectable world she now finds herself in. In a film, that's very much an actor's one & a practical who's who of British luvviedom, Helen Mirren delivers a great performance as a woman struggling with her past and sacrifices. Her final speech to Mary (MacDonald) on 'anticipation' is wonderful.An interesting film about a strata of society in decline, the British aristocracy, and the rise of a new type of elite in society movie stars and celebrities (predominantly American).  "},{"Title":"Brilliant writing; brilliant acting","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I highly anticipated this movie, and I can truly say I wasn't disappointed. 'Gosford Park' is stylish and elegant, witty and sharp, well written and excellently acted out. To begin with, I was wondering whether the filmmakers would be able to tie all the different people and their stories together in a coherent way, but my fears were put solidly to rest.The film is set on a country manor in England in 1932, where a group of guests arrive for a weekend shooting party. We follow both the 'upper class' in the luxurious lounges and their servants in the quarters below, and watch how their lives and actions intertwine. There are literally dozens of people to keep track of, but somehow Robert Altman manages to convey some individual character traits in all of them to help us keep them apart from each other and keep our interest in them going. Numerous plot lines are served for the viewer to enjoy and be puzzled by as the characters eat, drink, laugh, smoke, go hunting, have sex and insult each other with impeccable perfection. Conflicts, jealousy, secret relationships and sexual encounters take place, not only among the nobility, but also between the nobility and their servants. Then, suddenly, a murder takes place. A fumbling police inspector arrives to investigate, but it is one of the servants, a young chambermaid named Mary, who on her own manages to solve the puzzle and discover who the murderer is.The murder mystery is not the centre of attention of this movie, however. It rather focuses on the relationships between people of different classes, and is a brilliant insight in a 'lost era' &#150; the lavish lifestyle of the British upper class in the period between the two world wars. Rarely has the class differences in British society been better portrayed than in this film. Quick glances and subtle (and sometimes even not so subtle) remarks are enough to put someone thoroughly in their place. One of the less fortunate upper class wives appears in the same dress two nights in a row. 'It's so nice to be able to travel light, isn't it' one of the other women sardonically comments. It is also interesting to watch the relationship between the British elite and the small American contingent at the party. 'Oh, don't mind him &#150; he's an American', one of the main characters informs the detective when he arrives to investigate the murder. Another excellent example is when the American film producer arrives at breakfast and expects the servants to wait on him, only to be told very coolly and matter-of-factly 'in England, nobody is served at breakfast'. It's a delicious understatement which really portrays the way (many) Englishmen (used to?) look down upon Americans.The upper class gossip among themselves; as do the servants below. But interestingly enough, their stories are exchanged in the many private chambers of the manor. Mary's employer, the formidable Countess of Trentham &#150; brilliantly played by Maggie Smith &#150; downright expects Mary to give her 'the dirt' on the other guests which she has heard from their servants. Discretion is a trait she doesn't value in a maid, she proudly announces &#150; unless it's discretion concerning herself, of course. And in the end, it is Mary's ability to put two and two together and uncover the hidden past of several of the weekend guests which enables her to find out who the murderer is.With a veritable 'who's who' of British elite actors (who all do their very best) involved, it's difficult to point out someone in particular. But Maggie Smith has to be mentioned, as she truly excels here. She certainly has been given the meatiest role, with dozens of razor-sharp one-liners on her repertoire (she effectively castrates Mr. Novello, the actor, who plays the piano in the lounge &#150; 'don't encourage him, or he'll go on forever'; and when the American film producer is reluctant to give away the ending of his latest film at the dinner table, she deadpans 'oh, don't worry &#150; nobody here will see it'). She literally steals every scene she's in, and is certainly worthy of her Academy nomination (she should have won, too). Other excellent performances come from Helen Mirren as the head servant, Kristin Scott-Thomas as the snobbish, world-weary lady Sylvia, Stephen Fry as the Inspector (although his incompetence is stressed a little too heavy in my opinion) and Alan Bates as Jennings the (alcoholic) butler.As a true anglophile, this film was really 'my cup of tea', as the British would say, and I rate it a perfect 6 out of 6 on my dice. Judging from some of the other comments here, however, `Gosford Park' seems to require a certain sense of sophistication to be fully appreciated... "},{"Title":"Surprised there weren't more murders ... more tea please","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I waited far too long to see this movie, but Robert Altman never ceases to amaze.  He has as many misses (Dr. T and the Women, Pret-a-Porter) as he does must-sees (Brewster McCloud, Nashville), but he always shows us an aspect of life with his remarkable vision.  A truly outstanding cast complement the sharp screenplay with subtlety through quick glares and raised eyebrows.  This is not an American movie in any sense.  The Brits love to portray Americans as self-centered bumblers and Bob Balaban (co-writer of the script) plays the role wonderfully.  He manages to irritate everyone in the movie and in the audience.  The beautiful part is those that are irritated with him, are just as irritating themselves!  Watch for perfect performances throughout, but especially, Michael Gambon (mean spirited and pompous), Kristin Scott Thomas (a smile that cuts deeply), Maggie Smith (insecurity at its finest) Alan Bates (upstanding living with a deep secret), Helen Mirren (deeply wounded and desperate), Emily Watson (smartest and warmest character), Richard Grant (living for the moment of come-uppance).  The only one miscast is Ryan Phillippe, who flops in both his roles within the movie.  Side note on this one is try to find a short with Bob Balaban in the title role of Tex, the passive-aggressive gunslinger. "},{"Title":"Delicious!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The likes of this not seen since the marvelous treatments of Agatha Christie's Death on the Nile and Evil Under the Sun twenty-some years ago.  This is more richly textured than Christie's work, though, with all the upstairs/downstairs intrigue and by-play.  Plan to see it several times to enjoy all of it. "}{"Title":"Controlled Chaos","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman's films are about chaos and this one is no different, although it seems so on the surface. Most films and TV shows showing the British aristocracy in the old days depict a comfortable life, with deferential people to wait on you and plenty to eat and drink. Life has an agreeably slow pace and the conversation is stimulating. Upstairs/Downstairs hinted at some of the dark side of this picture, as did Remains of the Day. Now, one of the greatest directors, Robert Altman gives us his take on the form. Every character in this is in some sort of turmoil. Some are afraid of getting fired and thrown out to be on their own. Some are afraid of dark secrets being reveals. Some are afraid of being cut off and unable to maintain their lifestyle. Some are thwarted by life and very angry about it. Some are just bored to tears. But everywhere, there is chaos.Don't tell anybody, but this is not a murder mystery. It's also not a comedy. If you were looking for suspense, intrigue or laughs, you will be disappointed. What this is, as are all of Altman's films, is a group character study, a cross section of a place and time. That's the reason that so many fine actors flock to his films. they know they are going to get something to sink their teeth into. While you are looking for the famous faces, please note that Kristen Scott-Thomas's maid is played by Meg Wynn-Owen, who played James's wife, Hazel on Upstairs/Downstairs. The head cook is played by Eileen Atkins, who co-created Upstairs/Downstairs with Jean Marsh. Their original conception took a much more cynical view of service and the upper class than the eventual series that came out. They wanted to make a show about a drunken butler and an upstairs full of twits, something a little more in the spirit of what Altman was doing here, although he didn't go so far as to make his film into a comedy.Arguably, Altman's films are not comedies at all. They just seem to because he refuses to sympathize with his characters.   "},{"Title":"Excellent 'period' film, superb acting and a good ending twist to the story","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lovers of the period (1930s) will enjoy this film with its precise attention to detail of costume and life 'above' and 'below stairs'. Photography is top-class but I was slightly disappointed in the part played by Stephen Fry (Inspector). Not a very convincing portrait of the character I am sad to say.  Also there one or two utterances of the 'f' word. Where and when they were used in the story and especially by the character involved would not, in my opinion, have happened. In other words out of contxt and unnecessary.  An example of what I mean this The same word was used a great deal in 'Bridget Jones Diary' - in this case it was used by characters that most certainly would  have used in everyday life.  The same does not apply to 'Gosford Park'  Otherwise, apart from this small gripe, a most enjoyable cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Passes a happy couple of hours","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was surprised to find how many people seem to have disliked this film.  Some of the comments are downright venomous!  It does not deserve this.  Perhaps you have to be English to get some of the humour, I don't know, but at the showing I attended the audience laughed out loud several times, a rare thing among us buttoned up English and indicative of real enjoyment.  The detail of below stairs life is accurate if a bit dated at the time the film is set (1932) although the housekeeper does say as much at one point.  The decor is spot on. There are a number of questions and little mysteries unanswered at the end (at least I think so, but perhaps I missed something).  The chornology doesn't fit properly, but what the heck.  The Country House weekend murder mystery is by way of being a tradition in England, and this is a good one in the genre.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful twist on an old plot","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When this comes out on DVD, I will buy it. I did miss quite a bit of the dialogue at the beginning. It was important for the set up of the story. The British accents took a bit of time to get used to. And the conventions of 1930's British society aren't particularly well known to American audiences.The old English country house in the rain--many guests who seem to have agendas with each other theme is one we've seen before. However, in Altman's hands (with some help from the very talented and watchable Bob Balaban), Gosford Park becomes a true original. The interwoven plots of domestic politics both up and downstairs are a terrific comment on the rigid class distinctions in England. And Americans don't fare much better with Bob Balaban's constant monopolization of the one telephone line in his long distance dealings with Hollywood. Altman's movies are never brief. However, there wasn't a glacial moment in this slick story. The actors were well chosen and run the gamut from veterans to newcomers. "},{"Title":"Odd yet entertaining black comedy (spoilers)","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We get a feel for the absurdity of the situation in Gosford Park about a quarter of the way in preparing for dinner below stairs, the servants seat themselves according to the rank of their respective masters.  When the household staff has a class system, things have gotten out of hand.Eclectic and occasionally confusing, but intriguing all the same, Gosford Park follows a group of uppity socialites and their help at a weekend shooting party in the home of Sir William and Lady Sylvia McCordle (Michael Gambon and Kristin Scott Thomas).  Among the guests Sylvia's sister and brother-in-law (Geraldine Somerville and Charles Dance), haughty dowager aunt Constance (Maggie Smith, exuding icy elegance and nonchalant cruelty), and film idol Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam).  Central figures among the help include Constance's maid Mary (Kelly MacDonald), housemaid Elsie (Emily Watson), and housekeeper Mrs. Wilson (Helen Mirren).To trace all the history, affairs, and secrets between the occupants would not only be very time-consuming, but difficult--even after two-and-a-half hours, I still don't have all the details down (though trying to puzzle it out kept me interested in the film).  While the confusion is a bit disconcerting, I can't help but think this might have been the idea that Robert Altman is mocking the convoluted and incomprehensible mess these people have made from their lives, resulting in a web so tangled they can no longer see what's right in front of their noses.Due to the facts that a) nearly every room in the house seems to contain a bottle or two of poison, b) one of the knifes goes missing from the silver drawer and c) Sir William is not exactly Father Christmas and makes enemies on a regular basis, it becomes clear that the gentleman is not long for this world.  When the murder does take place, the investigation is conducted by one Inspector Thompson (Stephen Fry, with some of the best comic moments in the film).  Hercule Poirot he's not; Thompson is content to question the family and friends in a vague manner while his partner does the real forensics.  It hardly matters, as the point is not on whodunnit (the motive and identity of the killer are the most easily determined points in the plot), but on the blindness of the characters entirely absorbed in their own lives they not only cannot determine who killed Sir William, they don't seem to care much about it in the first place.  Even the servants are self-absorbed when one of their number proves to be not all he said, they ostracize him with an offended pride worthy of anyone above stairs.The ensemble cast is fine and universally solid.  Smith gives the strongest performance, providing Constance with all the hypocracy and hauteur of an Austen villianess.  MacDonald, the closest thing the film has to a central character, conveys sweetness and genuine appeal as Mary.  She resembles nothing so much as Alice down the rabbit-hole a sane human being curiously regarding the insanity around her.  Watson is also notable, bring an interesting mix of cynicism and wistfulness to the role of Elsie.  Even the peripheral characters provide strong, captivating performances.  You wouldn't want to live at Gosford Park, but it's a nice place to visit. "},{"Title":"Well done period piece with complex characters","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This excellent film by Robert Altman is more of a society film with a murder included than a traditional mystery. Clive Owen is smoldering and charming. The Kelly Macdonald role is an interesting use of a female protagonist, who also gets to be the detective in the mystery. Her role and how she develops as a character is very nicely woven into the progression of the story. The plainly stated depiction of a dying social class and a time of masters and servants is both poignant and satirical at the same time. This film is also similar to an earlier film made during the 30Õs called ÔRules of the gameÕ or ÔLa Regle du jeuÕ by Jean Renoir "},{"Title":"The film is rich in cars, costuming, and upstairs/downstairs for a delightful take on wealth and class rigidity of England in 1932.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can hear reasonably well, and I love all things British, but Robert Altman's `Gosford Park' has tested the limits of my theatrical patience once again his brilliant ability to film as if we were overhearing conversation at a party (remember `McCabe and Mrs. Miller' or `Nashville') leaves me wanting to be a listener who actually has heard all the conversation.Altman mixes British accents and a low-pitched voice level with his patented overlapping realistic dialogue to frustrate me, who doesn't want to miss a bit of it but does.  I must look forward to the DVD with its subtitle capability. Otherwise, I've lost half the dialogue in the mix of gabby characters and roving camera.However, the film is rich in cars, costuming, and upstairs/downstairs for a delightful take on wealth and class rigidity of England in 1932. It's a weekend shooting party at Gosford Park; the host, Sir William, played crustily by Michael Gambon, has the temerity to be self made and necessary to the financial stability of many attending aristocrats.The German situation is not an issue and the fragile world economy is obliquely hinted at only in the desperate finances of a few fawning relatives.The drama is downstairs, coordinated by Helen Mirren and Alan Bates as the embodiment of the stiff upper lip of the lower orders.  Although an aristocrat says about a servant overhearing a conversation,  `Don't worry, he's nobody,' Altman makes the servants so pervasive that they are actually every bodies. An aristocrat impersonating a servant is told bluntly, `You can't be on both teams at once.' It's tough downstairs.Upstairs the reigning snob is Maggie Smith's countess.  An unforgettable conveyor of the putdown, she is never better than when cutting on the bourgeois film star and the fussing American producer. Neither belongs in her frigid world.The actual murder mystery is a plot device, seemingly unimportant to the guests and the director.  The film rests on the tension surrounding the classes, birthrights, birth parents, and access to power and money.  For these themes and his layers of superb actors, Altman is the ultimate ringmaster. For atmosphere and style, Altman is worth every bit of lost dialogue.  "},{"Title":"If there was a casting Oscar, this film would certainly have won it.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I suspect this movie wouldn't suit an ordinary movie goers palate, but that's just my feeling, feel free to ignore it. If I had to recommend it, I would recommend it to real movie aficionados and wouldn't guarantee them any particular aftertaste. Its a love it or hate it kind of movie.I loved it and here're the reasons.Excellent ensemble drama. Well directed. Well acted. Very well written. Excellently cast. Just like chess pieces everyone in its right place and serves its purpose, though the canvas is so big that its hard to keep track of all the characters. Not a fast paced movie but certainly not dreary.It's a true auteur's movie. It makes you wonder about the hard work and craftsmanship put into writing and directing it. "},{"Title":"Drawing Room Drama of Epic Proportions","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Reading reviews is one of the fun parts of watching a new (to you) movie. The biggest comedic relief of this reading is the reference by so many to this film as a comedy and/or mystery. It's a drawing room drama of near epic proportions. The producers/directors seemed to want to throw it all in, and the crime part of the thing surely was not intended to be taken seriously. Blake Edwards may have recognized that police inspector, but Agatha Christie would have shuddered. She didn't do comedies, and her detectives were expert and successful. And, how can this be a whodunit when they show you who did it?? Clearly, everyone connected with the project worked hard. And they got their A's for effort. And a big Q for quantity, but 0 for quality. No matter how much talent you assemble, rabbits pulled out of hats, it all just gets lost in the jabbering herd. A lot of people are referencing this movie right now because of the huge current following of PBS' Downton Abbey. There are comparisons of site and theme and so forth. So, it sends one to or back to GP. It no doubt was ground breaking, in proportion at least, for its type and in its time -- but it has been majorly eclipsed with Abbey. Somehow, the more civil versions of this theme have surpassed offerings of this sort. You can scream artistic expression in many categories on this, but the period films (or other) that are the most revisited (and awarded as well) are not of this ilk. These characters don't live on. Who could even remember half of them? That's not the case with other period films of the type and subject, which have and are becoming classics, like Downton Abbey, one in the works - undeniably a smash hit.There's a problem today with confusing filthy talk and wholesale shoddy behavior with realism. Again, the characters that become real to people are not from films that attempt to standardize lower forms of human nature and expression. People have a way of wanting to spend their time and revisit works that reflect upward from dysfunction, with liberal sprinklings of sleaze. Sorry, but that's basically what you've got here. It may be a part of real life, but most people really aren't impressed by it, nor seek it as entertainment. Adult themes can be represented without being crammed down your throat. Applause to those with the artistic skill and human depth to bring that off. Unfortunately, that did not happen here. Innovative spectacle for its time -- a reach for a positive commentary. "},{"Title":"On the absolute top of my list","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I must say this is one of the best films I ever saw. It is so excellently staged, there is simply nothing for me to remark on. It really got me engaged, interested, curious, although not sentimental. It is far from a simple story - but if you give it some attention you will be invited into a world of elegance, thrilling intersections, and personal stories. I enjoyed very much also the second and third watches of this film, catching all the details. It's beautifully set, and if you fancy the style of the 30s you might find pleasure in the dresses and environments (shifting between upstairs and downstairs). The overall feeling I get from this film, is that of an ocean that is smooth on the surface but subtly yet intensely boiling underneath. A pleasure to watch! "}{"Title":"A Disappointing Effort","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman meets Agatha Christie, with some pretty confusing results. Agatha Christie's mysteries were a finely honed balance between character development and plot detail&#x97;knowing just enough to care about discovering who the killer was and why he/she killed. Unfortunately, Altman cares about neither aspect of story development here. There was a time when the mention of an Altman film gave me shivers of anticipation and excitement. Altman had crafted the ensemble cast concept into a visual delight - M*A*S*H and Nashville spring instantly to mind. But, like the saying goes, all good things must come to an end and Gosford Park is definitely the end of Altman's creative spark. Altman proved that an ensemble cast of 15 people could be a rare confection indeed. Under his skillful control he was always aware of how a good plot and subtle character nuances could bring out the best in his characters&#x97;and hence the story. Yet, like the greedy child in a candy store, Altman attempts to go extreme and serve up a mishmash ensemble cast that topples over at 30! Among the jumble of corridor scenes, kitchen scenes, and bedroom confessions are a few bright spots&#x97;Maggie Smith as a tired aristocrat with attitude, the too-inquisitive maid, and the bumbling, self-assured detective who hasn't a clue---for a change! Another extreme was the pacing of the plot. Was it necessary to keep the pace at fast forward? A smaller cast and slower pace would have done much to save this lovely-looking film from pretentious posing. "},{"Title":"Where are you, Agatha?","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park's marketing implied that it was a mystery in the style of Agatha Christie mysteries. At the beginning it seems to fit with this profile as an array of guests make their way to a large house in the English countryside. However, as the film progresses, it becomes apparent that this is not a mystery in the Agatha Christie sense, rather it is primarily focused on showing the lives of the characters in great depth and highlighting class distinctions in Britain as they were in the 1930s.The film has a number of good points. Sets and costumes were very well-crafted and impressive. The film was well-scored and particularly notable was the ditties sung by Ivor Novello while he played the piano. Notable performances come from a great cast and the film has its brilliant moments, particularly when we learn key details about the shrouded characters.However, observing the rituals of the house in between the film's top moments became tedious. The film seemed to be picking up steam when the promised murder took place. However, the last part of the film ultimately did not gain significant momentum after the murder. Stephen Fry's character was amusing initially when he could not seem to speak his full name without being interrupted, but his bumbling approach to investigating the murder was unfortunate. However, the movie does provide an interesting conclusion as the final details of key characters are revealed.Gosford Park is well-filmed, but the fact that the mystery aspect is deemphasized relative to exploring the conventions of the house left me disappointed. If you are looking for an Agatha Christie type mystery, look elsewhere. But if a thorough exploration of English society and class distinctions in 1930s Britain appeals to you, see Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"An Altman movie not to be missed","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Perhaps my favorite Altman, this is not just another study of the lives of those who live the privileged upstairs life versus those who are consigned to the drudgery of downstairs existence. If Agatha Christie could have seen this, I'm sure she would have smiled. How do you pick out, in a cast of 30 or so superb performances, the ones that make a movie? There's Michael Gambon as the insatiably procreative and amoral host, so well matched to a role compared to his casting as Dumbledore. Kelly Macdonald embodying the spirit of a Miss Marple or Hercule Poirot in her understated performance as the unraveler of mysteries. Maggie Smith offering a clipped opinion about everything and everyone with so much humorously eloquent attitude, arguably the only upstairs dweller who seems to realize that the servants do exist and do hear what you say. Richard E. Grant as the man of vices and magnificently opinionated looks and gestures. Helen Mirren as the servant and mother who, true to her calling, anticipates every need. And on and on and on, I kid you not. What a great movie. To pull off something this complex must have given Altman an incredible artistic high. This is a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Quite Enthralling","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park to put it very plainly is definitely worth your time. It is a brilliantly crafted piece of work.Set in the early 1930's, The story centers around a group of guests who have gathered at their wealthy and affluent host's country estate for a brief sojourn. However, whats interesting is that it's not just the guests who are important, the servants control the plot as well to an equal if not greater extent. The movie explores the relationships that the guests have with each other as well as with their servants.The cast is top-notch. The ever-glorious Maggie Smith who plays the role of Lady Trentham nails her character. Tart, condescending and snobbish, she revels in her role of old English gentry.I have never seen Kelly Macdonald act before, but I was very impressed by her performance. Cast as the maid Mary Maceachran waiting on lady Trentham, she manages to portray the necessary timidity and meekness, at the same time convincing the viewer of her understated loyalty and honest simplicity.Kristin Scott Thomas has a sizable role as Sylvia McCordle, the wife of the host. Hers I found somewhat of a complex character, for it was hard to fathom her out at once. The shades to her character were revealed very gradually over the course of the movie. But Thomas pulls it off very deftly, the transitions are smooth, and one learns about her as the story unfolds.Ryan Phillippe, perhaps obvious in a different sense for he stands out as an American actor among largely English co-stars, of mention-ably high pedigree. All may not agree with his performance, but I felt Phillippe held his own. As the valet to Mr.Weissman, he seems from the start as the the odd one out among the rest of the servants. And this is obvious to almost everyone who works down below stairs with him. His interaction with the others is intriguing to watch as they all suspect him of hiding some secret.Helen Mirren is another one of the fine English actresses in this film. She plays the role of Mrs. Wilson, the housekeeper who essentially runs the whole show and the servants as well, much to their annoyance. She seems like a hard-hearted woman, who shuns the company of other human beings and can't abide anything other than subservient behavior from the domestics who are under her reign. All this plays out for most of the initial movie, but gradually we glimpse the cracks beneath the surface, which lead us to see that there is more to this women that meets the eye.Also notable among the cast are Clive Owen as the valet Robert Parks, who doesn't seem to be all that interested in valeting and Emily Watson as the maid Elsie. Watson I think does a really good job playing a maid who seems to want more from life than just waiting on people, but at the same time is tied to her employer for a very different reason.Summing it up, Gosford Park delivers. With a fine cast, crafty plot and fast-paced tempo, it makes for an enjoyable watching experience. "},{"Title":"Evocative, intelligent and atmospheric","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Hmmm. I've read a few of the other user reviews of this. My favourite was the suggestion that a morality tale playing on the class divide was a pointless exercise in modern society. Hmmm. I guess a CGI-ridden story about, say, a messiah helping the last remaining humans to conquer a robot threat is a worthwhile exercise then? Gosford Park is a beautifully-shot film a masterpiece of the cinematographer's art. Forget for a second the stellar cast, the remarkable acting, the well-crafted script and the stylish directing and enjoy it for the way it paints little character portraits and draws you into the era.If you enjoy good film-making, I defy you not to take something away from Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"Utterly enthralling","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching Gosford Park is really more like eavesdropping it's packed so tight with rich detail one cannot possibly take it all in. Instead, we drift through the house, upstairs and downstairs, watching the events of a shooting weekend at a magnificent old-money house in the (very rainy) English countryside, piecing together characters by catching a snippet of conversation here, a liaison there.We're watching from the point of view of the servants (there's one in every scene). Some characters are more thoroughly explored than others, but even those who aren't particularly foregrounded feel like people we aren't really getting to know rather than underdeveloped extras. As a result, a few of the plot lines (especially the two involving letters) are obscured in the general texture of the piece, and some are never resolved at all, but again this feels deliberate - we catch intriguing glimpses, but do not get to know the whole story. If this sounds frustrating, let me assure you that it's entirely the opposite - it makes everything even more absorbing. Like life, we don't get all the answers.There is a plot, in the classic whodunnit style, but to concentrate on this plot is to miss the point of the film entirely. That said, the secrets brought to light by the murder are heartbreaking, and 'who' is nowhere near as significant as 'why'. But the focus of this film (such as it is) is on the subtly developing characters, the rich production design and the satisfaction of feeling things fall into place in your head as you mentally assemble the various plots and characters from the details you've managed to 'overhear'.The film leaves me with a feeling of melancholy - of nostalgic regret that such a grand (albeit classist and exploitative) way of life had to end, and that change is on the way. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie would like this movie","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am a big fan of all book and film genres, and i have nearly all of Christies' books, and i have to say, i think she would like it! I know i did ~! The acting was great, the storyline, while not a typical whodunnit, was excellent, and i ended up being glad for the branch off from typical mystery movies; i wasn't spending the whole movie trying to figure out 'whodunnit', instead i was enjoying the intricate characters and scenes. >Spoiler> the scene in which Mary McKeenhan confronts Robert Parks (Clive Owens) in the bedroom is one of the most sexually charged moments i have ever seen. It was way better than most sex scenes you see today, and they didn't even do anything aside from kiss! And the funny thing about it being so strong, was that they are talking about the murder during the whole thing!All in all, i enjoyed this movie, very very much. I give it a full 5 stars out of 5 rating. Highly enjoyable! "},{"Title":"A Slice of English Life?","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I must say I am always amazed when I here the word boring when a movie has moments that are slow. In real life, is every moment spent alone or with others riveting, heart pounding, spell binding? I do not think so.But when this is reflected in a motion picture that is clearly inviting us to spend an evening at home with a couple and there motley assortment of guests, when there is a lull, uh oh! That is my impression of this picture, we are spending a little time with these people listening in on their conversations. We also have a listen as the servants gossip, who generally know more of the goings on than their employers.*possible spoiler*Interestingly, the mousiest servant of the lot was the one who was the most inquisitive and ultimately, knew the most. Hmmmmmm.I do not think that this movie was over rated. I think that at this point the director does not have anything to prove. He's just making his movies to his liking. Since Altman never seemed concerned about mainstream, big box office money making machines, this type of movie is classic Altman. "},{"Title":"Gosford Park is a character film and should be appreciated as such.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Upon first viewing, this movie is a bit difficult to follow.  The multitude of characters, many sharing names with other characters, creates a general confusion that is only exacerbated by the characters' accents.  However, after seeing the movie a second time, I realized that the plot, though clever and well-crafted, is secondary to the setting.  This is certainly a setting piece and should be appreciated as such.  When one is views the movie as a showcase for the mansion and the countryside, one can appreciate the characters and their positions all the more.  Watch for the asides. Every line is written with care and none should be ignored.9/10 "},{"Title":"Gosford Park is an excellent Film","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A must see.  There is a huge cast, witty dialogue, and nail-biting suspense. My friend and I just watched the film on pay per view last night and I would say I was impressed to say the least.  It was definitely not what I was expecting, but I was pleasantly surprised with how the movie turned out. You should see it! "}{"Title":"Gosford for timeless entertainment","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a great movie that shows us a brief glimpse at how life was for the aristocrats of the 1930s.  The movie is interesting to me mainly because of the painstaking detail that was put into each scene.  Robert Altman did an excellent job with the character interaction that takes place throughout the movie.  Also, it is interesting to pay attention to how Altman separated the upper class from their servants.   He makes sure to show a sharp distinction between the two.  I enjoyed this film extensively and still catch things each time I see it.  If you haven't seen the movie, it is on pay-per-view now! "},{"Title":"a wonderful example of the period/costume drama that the Brits do so well!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The mystery and the murder are not the point. Altman has, in incredible detail, portayed the Bristish in a particular time (1932), and the result is a social, if not dramatic masterpiece. Maggie Smith, Alan Bates, Kristen Scott-Thomas, Emily Watson, Michael Gambon, Stephen Fry, Jeremy Northam and indeed the whole cast bring  nuances of social class to the movie that only the Brits could bring. In short this is a wonderful period/costume drama "},{"Title":"Beautiful, subtle, dense","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dense meaning rich, full of character, full of detail, full of imagery. Gosford Park isn't a murder mystery in the usual sense, for the death and its solution isn't really the point at all. It's like a very large version of Upstairs, Downstairs, except the staff is far more cynical and observant of the upper class than on that old television program. Yes, it's true that at times some of the dialog is hard to follow; most of the actors, oddly enough, are British, and understand how important the correct accent is for each character, each class. Yes, it's also true that the film doesn't race along like a Vin Diesel vehicle (pun!), but all I can say is Thank god for that! Beautiful, funny, wry film.  "},{"Title":"Just Because It's Slow, Doesn't Make It Boring","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie earlier this afternoon and I have to say that I was blown away by it.  Yes, it's slow.  But that's kind of the point. It's a deliberate murder mystery that's not really about the murder at all.  It's a deconstruction of class, and how people have to live within the rigid structure of the British Class system between the World Wars.  And it's not just lower and upper classes.  It's the structure within the classes themselves.  Pay attention to the interweaving of the characters and their interactions and realize that it's all because of the class system, and nothing more.  You know why nobody cares about the murder, because nobody, even his wife, really cared about who was murdered.  Isn't that the real crime here?  These characters are so full of themselves, that the death only means a slight step up on the totem pole.Another thing that I want to say about this film, is that after having seen Black Hawk Down a couple of days ago, this movie is as much a technically visual masterpiece as the Ridley Scott film.  The use of foreground and background is simply amazing.  The choreography and blocking of the movement is perfect.  Is it rigid? Yup.  And that's the point.It's a shame that movies like this are refered to as boring and stiff. One reviewer suggested that it would work as a thirty minute short as opposed to a nearly two and half hour long movie.  That seems like a ridiculous notion to me because then all it would have been a murder mystery as opposed to what a wonderfully filmed character drama.And hey, I didn't remember a single name either.  Maybe people who have criticized this movie for that should look back and see how many movies they remember all the names of all the characters upon the first viewing.  My thought is that most of the names are inconsequential anyhow. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman at his best !","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman, besides Stanley Kubrick, is one of the few very successful directors for decades, who never steals by himself. The movie reminds me of his first real masterpiece Nashville. Of course Gosford Park is not just a simple whodunit. It's about the very complex relationships which show that basically everybody seems to have a motive whether they are a master or a servant. "},{"Title":"Hyper-conscious look at social class in 1930s Britain in veneer of murder mystery","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman has the politics of the 1960s running in his blood. For him, authority is to be mocked, morality to be shown as hypocritical, conventions as exercises in preservation of power or privilege, virtue is either the booby prize of the loser or merely the sanctimony of the narrowly stupid.Instead, the hero is always the rebel - the one outside respectable society who wishes to upset - often humorously - all convention and morality. This is typical of his movies - this one is set not in South Korea in the 1950s or the Old West or contemporary Paris but in an English country house in 1932.  Altman's interest here is to reflect on the cruelty of class differences in Britain of the 1930s, hidden by the social structure of the day. A murder mystery is simply the device employed (and amateurishly so).It may assist some to know that this is a weekend house/shooting party at a country estate in northeast England (Northumberland) in 1932. The hosts are a wealthy and able man who is married to a younger woman -they have one daughter. They invite the wife's relations to visit a) her two sisters (and their husbands), b) the three sisters' aunt, c) a man and his homely wife (invited through a connection with their daughter), d) a distant cousin of the host who should provide entertainment (an actor who has brought an American movie producer and apparent servant in tow), and e) a friend of the daughter who has brought someone he seeks to set up with her. Oh yes, there are valets and maids who come with almost all of them - and a full staff at the house.The movie is interesting socially - with the great agricultural depression of the late 19th century (farm prices were depressed due to worldwide competition from more efficiently farmed and transported crops around the world), land has ceased to be able to create and support great fortunes. Between 1870 and 1900, vast numbers of members of the upper class have moved into the commercial arena they once disdained. With the Liberal Government that entered in 1909 - and even more with the Government policies of the 1920s and 1930s - taxation has begun to crimp the retention of wealth between generations - through inheritance taxes, property taxes, graduated income taxes. After World War I, servants are more difficult to find and retain - and far more expensive due to alternative possible employment. With the coming of the Depression, the upper class (now in the trade they once disdained) has been nearly as affected as in America. The host's business acumen and resulting wealth makes him a lifeboat for many. He knows it - but for him, business is business.A privileged class has therefore found itself in jeopardy - and this is evident in the many subplots among the upper class in this movie.Altman is a deeply cynical and rebellious man - and most of his movie sets out to kick the upper class for its purported affectations, snobberies, vanity, cold-heartedness, and general inhumanity. However, he does still allow some affecting portraits of devotion - whether it is Derek Jacobi (the host's valet) to the host, or the maid Dorothy's devotion to the head butler, or the affection borne the host by his sister-in-law or by one of the maids, or the feeling of one  husband toward his wife.I sympathize with those who didn't understand the identity of the murderer, but suggest they simply pay better attention. The movie, and the relationships of the characters, are better understood on second viewing - things are said that presage later conduct, you understand better why some people accompany others. This is a fine movie - but careful attention must be paid. It should not be taken as a last word on the upper class or class differences of the time. (A striking contrast is shown in Remains of the Day). However, it is an intelligent take - and a closely observed one. I'd recommend it "},{"Title":"A master's touch!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A wonderfully non-Hollywood movie which concentrates on characters and plot and the subtle interaction of those people rather than the usual tired buildup to a smorgasbord of violence.Altman's plot and direction were a contemporary look back at the way films were assembled during the actual time of the setting of Gosford Park.  In my opinion he was making a film about the early Thirties at the same time that he was making a movie that harkened back to that period the product was delightfully refreshing in every way!The actors in the film relished the lines and the plot subtlies that  Altman presented to them because of their consummate acting abilities they were able to add substance to a large assortment of characters which meant that the viewer was able to, in effect, watch many little films rather than simply watching one or two principle actors rolling over many smaller roles-as happens all too often.  The result is a rich pastiche of many characters none of which over-take the entire film.Watch Gosford Park to see, expertly completed, a film of unusual texture and density. "},{"Title":"a tragic satire of British society","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday in Paris. Experiencing it with a French audience no doubt enhanced its power to reinforce the feeling of being in voluntary exile from Britain. Today I have been haunted by recurrent images of the servants' domain, a warren of low corridors, cramped rooms and frantic industry that I had never seen before. The grandeur of life upstairs we have all seen many times, but never in such a context of servants' lives. The image was of a workhouse or factory jammed into the basement of a palace. Factories play a significant role in the story the lord of the manor owns several and a number of the servants started out in them. Imagine what life in the factories was like (the film is set in the 1930s) if domestic service of this kind was a step up.The overwhelming tenor of the society is one of brutality. The owners behave savagely towards the servants and to each other. The servants reproduce this in their own hierarchies. Only Americans could have made this movie, since the British are still seduced by the national glory the lifestyle represents. The plot is eventually a murder mystery, but no-one pays much notice to the victim, since it seems to be a natural expression of the culture he embodied. Gosford Park is so parodic of the Agatha Christie genre invented in this period as to point up the bitterness of the social satire. There are not many jokes.What then is this magnificent cast of British actors doing in such a movie? Many of the greatest of them on show perform as servants the superb Helen Mirren, Derek Jacobi, Alan Bates, Eileen Atkins. Some of the others create memorable upper class monsters Maggie Smith, Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott-Thomas. Does this express what they feel about their role in a British society dependent on Americans to make films? The creaking plot device of an invasion of Hollywood types doesn't quite work, but it does allow us to see the British as others see them.What makes this film tragic for me is that it depicts the appallingly recent source of a contemporary Britain that has not shaken off the loss of an empire it made in the image of the society revealed here. I grew up after the war, but my journey from the provincial lower classes to Oxbridge and beyond constantly exposed me to the residue of this brutal class hierarchy. It is the mark of a great movie to make us feel that we are seeing something new. Altman has done us all a favour by exposing upstairs/downstairs without any hint of mystique. I wonder if, when seen through the cultural blinkers of London's suburbs, it provokes nostalgia, not pity, if only to witness so many of our greatest actors as servants looking their age.  "},{"Title":"A movie-making masterpiece with an excess of niggling plot details.","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park (2001)Robert Altman is an amazing director in love with making movies of complexity and inner integrity. But he sometimes loses hold on the basic storytelling and emotional aspects of a film, losing at least part of the viewer's involvement. That's no small flaw, in the end, and Gosford Park, like The Player, is both admirable and cold, virtuosic and needlessly busy and clever. So watch it for the details more than the plot, which is smart enough if you can keep up with all the details, some more pertinent than others. The mise-en-scene is utterly convincing (and house or houses used for shooting is beyond perfect for it). The class structure, and the interplay between classes, is played with constantly, and with wit. The blocking of scenes (the movement of characters in the space) is complex and involving. And the camera-work is subtle and beautiful, and varied. Note how often the camera moves just slightly toward, and around, an actor being singled out, giving a fluidity to watching. Indeed, this could have been a really horrible movie, a bore, a confusing morass. But it is so well made it is worth watching, and maybe, for a film student, worth studying. The acting, on top of it all, is superb, Clive Owen and his confident diffidence not the least of the great roles.But the distractions persist. The annoying and oddly inconsequential American, for one of several characters who might better have been left out. And why all the subplots between some of those upstairs meant to recreate the haughty snobbery of the scene but little else? The confusion, even while paying attention, doesn't so much make you rapt but make you glaze over. "},{"Title":"Complex and Demanding, but Never Boring","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" One November weekend in 1932, a group of guests assemble at Gosford Park, the country seat of Sir William McCordle, for a shooting party. During the course of the weekend Sir William is found dead, apparently stabbed to death, in his study. This scenario recalls the classic English country house murder mystery popularised by Agatha Christie. There was a vogue for filming Christie's novels in the seventies and eighties, but today she is widely regarded as quaint and old-fashioned. It was, therefore, something of a surprise to see Robert Altman, a director with a reputation for being forward-looking and experimental, making a film based upon what could easily have been a Christie plot, although Julian Fellowes's screenplay was in fact an original one.Yet in some respect Altman's style is suited to a murder mystery. One of his trademarks is the use of multiple story lines involving a large (and normally all-star) cast, and this fits in well with the traditional murder story, in which it is necessary to establish that there were a considerable number of people with a motive to commit the crime. This is what happens in Gosford Park; there is no one obvious suspect because Sir William was a highly unpleasant individual and most of the people present in the house had good cause to dislike him. (For example, he had threatened to cut off the allowance paid to his sister Lady Constance).That does not mean, however, that the film is a pastiche of the likes of The Mirror Crack'd or Evil under the Sun. The first half of the film is taken up with introducing the characters and establishing the relations between them. Whereas the traditional murder mystery concentrates very much on the relations between the eventual murder victim and those persons who will later be suspected of his or her murder, in Gosford Park there is a much more complex web of interrelationships. This enables Fellowes to concentrate not only on those upstairs- the McCordle family and their guests- but also on those downstairs- the servants who work in the basement. (Interestingly, one of the servants is played by Eileen Atkins, one of the creators of Upstairs, Downstairs, a well-known British TV series from the seventies which also portrayed life in a wealthy household and in which the servants also played as important a role as their master and his family).The social structure revealed in this film is a complicated one. For all his baronial pretensions, Sir William's wealth derives from his ownership of factories in the London suburbs, something which in the eyes of the traditional landed aristocracy and gentry would be enough to damn him as new money. (We learn that in his younger days he was a notorious sexual predator, preying on his factory girls, and his habit of fondling attractive young female servants suggest that he has not changed his ways in old age). We see the arrival of an even newer moneyed class in the persons of Ivor Novello (who was a real-life actor, singer and composer of the period) and Morris Weissman, an American film producer in England to learn something of country house life in preparation for a film he is making. (Ironically, also a murder mystery). It is not only life upstairs that has a hierarchical structure; the servants' hall has a hierarchy of its own, in which a valet outranks a footman but is outranked by a butler.Another difference between this film and the traditional whodunit is that there is no omniscient detective to act as a Deus ex machina and resolve the mystery at the end. Unlike, say, Hercule Poirot, Stephen Fry's policeman is a minor, and rather comic, figure. It is a much more unlikely character who actually solves the mystery.The film's cast list reads like a Who's Who of the British acting profession. There is not space enough here to praise all those who deserve it, but I must single out exceptionally fine contributions from Maggie Smith as Lady Constance, Helen Mirren as the housekeeper, Kelly Macdonald as the Scottish maid, Alan Bates as the drunken butler Jennings, and Clive Owen as Robert Parks, a young man who harbours a long-standing grudge against Sir William.The film also features another of Altman's trademark devices, the use of overlapping conversations. I have never been a great admirer of this device, but in Gosford Park, however, it seems to work, making for greater realism without (as it sometimes does) sacrificing comprehension. Altman and Fellowes succeed in taking a traditional, often hackneyed, genre, and putting it to fresh use, both as a character study of a diverse group of characters and as an exploration of social issues. The result is a complex and often demanding film. Unlike some reviewers, however, I never found it a boring one. 8/10 "}{"Title":"I was rooting for this for Best Picture.","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In what may be Robert Altman's best movie since McCabe and Mrs. Miller, a plethora of aristocrats and their servants come to an estate in rural England in 1932 for a hunting party. When a murder takes place, it sets the stage for discovering that there's more to these people than anyone realizes.Obviously, that's a loose description, but I don't want to give away too much. But I will note this scene when Insp. Thompson (Stephen Fry) is investigating, he says Only the people with secrets should be worried. He doesn't know just how serious he is! This has the definite feel of an Altman movie, namely the overlapping dialogue. I literally have nothing bad to say about Gosford Park; everything about it was done perfectly. Bob Balaban, Alan Bates, Michael Gambon, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Ryan Philippe, Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas, and everyone else all do a marvellous job with their roles. Moreover, this movie's prominence when it came out gave Altman a chance to take a swipe at George W. Bush. Julian Fellowes took home an Oscar for his screenplay (I was rooting for this movie for Best Picture). And now that the Academy is giving Altman an honorary Oscar at the upcoming ceremony, I think that it affirms everything that I've just said here.When Ryan Philippe starred in I Know What You Did Last Summer, who ever would have guessed that he would co-star with Miss Jean Brodie a few years later? "},{"Title":"Warning- Not recommended for Vin Diesel fans","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If the merit of a movie is judged by how many explosions, profanity, car chases and busty wenches in push-up bras are included then this movie is a boring, rotten waste of time. If you do enjoy period pieces with lots of talking and acting..... well then, Gosford Park lives up to all expectations! The funny points in this movie are subtle, and generally require an appreciation of satire. (oh, but if you can't understand English accents or understated sarcasm, don't bother) There are subtle clues as the movie progresses that do tell you whodunit, but of course you have to figure it out by paying attention during all that time they spend introducing the characters..... Oh look, that endless dialogue is there for a reason! Gosford Park has elements of both Agatha Christie and Howard's End and is superbly done. Helen Mirren is fabulous as always. Thumbs way up on this one! Oh....but if you don't like movies that make you think, well maybe Gosford Park isn't for you. Rent an action flick and give those brain cells a rest. "},{"Title":"At last a proper English film made by an american","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A superb who-dunit that your not really sure who done it until about five minutes from the end. Unlike in an Agatha Christie the murder was at least done by a main member of the cast,and clues weren't left out until after you have found out who dunit. I thought the ensemble cast was in the main very good especially Maggie Smith's cutting wit. Robert Altman has made a truly superb film about life in a 1930's country house house with all the upstairs/downstairs prejudices and snobbery.The first hour is mainly taken up by perfectly paced character development.Then the murder happens and the guessing begins. I particually liked the Clive Owen character (Parks) an ambiguous and dark character with more skeletons then most and not all in his own cupboard.One last thing,it was a joy to hear real english and scottish accents rather than the sterile HOLLYWOOD version that we hear all to often.I cannot understand the compliants about not being able to understand the dialog in this film(nobody on this side of the pond ever seem to have any problems with American accents unless they are speaking spanish of course!!). "},{"Title":"Good ensemble movie","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was an enjoyable movie.  I thought the murder mystery was secondary to the class distinction story.  Some of Emily Watson's dialog was hard to catch but her acting was a pleasure.  Helen Mirren, as always, was exceptional.  Clive Owen was also good.  No one actor really stood out in the story.  The view of downstairs at an aristocratic British mansion was a revealing and a refreshing change.  The DVDs extra were also fun.  A movie well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A lot of viewers aren't sophisticated enough to enjoy this film.I'm one of them.  There's a good chance you are too, unless you have a soft spot for boring period pieces that drag on for more than two hours.  "},{"Title":"shooting after Magritte","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching in the same period Brideshead Revisited I told myself another British manners movie. Still, I was curious what will differentiate it from Brideshead ..., from Agatha Christie's ones (as I heard a murder will happen). Extremely interesting and surprising for me about this film was the fact that while the American director Weissman seemed to predict what will happen, later sarcastically describing the details on the phone for his crew in Hollywood, the reality (the underground) proved to be far beyond his remarks or anyone's guesses. So, the screenplay is indeed remarkable ...And I think it is worth adding my husband's remarks, first on the image - it was like shooting after Magritte, second - memories from the Remains of the day came back from past, especially about the perfectionism of the English servant and his/hers squeezed interior life.It was such a tremendous experience to watch this movie ... "},{"Title":"Altman's Gift To Posterity","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" As a whodunit, in the classic style of Agatha Christie, Gosford Park is disappointing. There are way too many characters to keep track of; indeed, there are forty-four speaking parts in this film. Also, the film's structure is mostly set-up, which requires viewer patience, as one plods through the meandering first act. And, the English accents are extreme, perhaps intentionally, and thus render an added burden for American viewers.Alternately, one could view the film as a study in contrasting social class structure and behavior, under one roof, in 1930's England. From this perspective, the film's production design and costumes engender respect. The viewer gets a feel for the atmosphere of the above stairs English aristocracy of the era, and the corresponding atmosphere of the servant class, below stairs. The best approach here is to absorb the overall ambiance, as the details quickly become tedious and tiresome.But mostly, Gosford Park is a study of Robert Altman's directorial style of storytelling, as nonlinear, animated art. This contrasts to Agatha Christie's style as linear, animated algebra. In Altman's paradigm, you gaze at selected parts. Your eye's movement, or rather the camera's, is random. You look here, you look there, at a kaleidoscope of human interaction; you see tiny bits of the whole. What you do not do is progress in a rigid, linear fashion from point A to point B in the drama, which in a classic sense, leads logically to point C; hence, the film's high character count and multiple plot lines. They are there on purpose, to enhance fragmentation, and to frustrate solutions.All of this can be unsettling to casual moviegoers who expect a traditional whodunit. What they get instead is directorial slight of hand, or misdirection, as it were. Indeed, my opinion is that this film is not even aimed at the general public, apart from revenue. The film's underlying message is aimed at intellectuals, serious film critics, Hollywood insiders, and most of all at ... posterity. And that message pertains to the art of film-making.When one becomes as well known as Altman, and reaches a certain age in life, perhaps it is natural to want to leave to posterity your philosophy of film, your artistic vision. You want to leave a lasting imprint, as a director. For Robert Altman, Gosford Park is that imprint. In this context then, the wants and expectations of the movie going public is ... irrelevant. "},{"Title":"OVERRATED","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This might have been an entertaining film if half of the characters and one-half hour of the lenghth had been deleted.  As it stands, however, it doesn't work as a murder mystery, a comedy of manners or a cogent comment on class conflicts.  Remains of the Day or any of the Agatha Christie movies are superior to what Altman has attempted. "},{"Title":"Like a train at a crossing - too dull to entertain, too loud to sleep through.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Meandering, over-obvious and weighed down by too many plotlines -- but I guess that's Altman for you.Ostensibly a murder mystery, behold instead a film about aristocrats, their servants, and the relationships between them.  Potentially interesting, but in effect the film merely drags Here's a scene about the maids, here's one about the Hollywood movie producer, here's a bit with the old man's dog, here's the guy with the Scottish accent...no one's dead yet...more maids, some sex, this guy's a vegetarian...get the idea?  When the presumed murder does occur (and that's late in the film), it's a pity only one person died.Clutching for something to enjoy in this mess, one can, indeed, enjoy the cast.  Maggie Smith in particular delivers a stupendous performance as Lady Trentham, a particularly snobbish and callous old woman with an acid tongue -- but this reviewer could not help wishing she's put on a peaked hat and tell everyone else to shut up for goodness sake or she'd give them all detention with Mr Filch.  Stephen Fry, TV's Jeeves (of Jeeves & Wooster fame), is too terribly amusing as a hopeless, unobservant Police Investigator, a role which, though funny, is too flat and is mercifully a short one.  (The gag surrounding the Investigator's name is funny the first three times; by the sixth, it just isn't.)  Derek Jacobi, Richard E. Grant, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillippe...they're all here, and please watch them -- but in something else, OK?Worst of all, however, is the obviousness of the plot; The Big Payoff is telegraphed and pretty well handed to the viewer before too long, so that when the revelation takes place, one can but shrug and say, Like no one saw that coming (which, I might add, I did).  There are no surprises in this film, no clever twists, nothing truly...interesting.(Apparently, the film was very funny; other theatregoers seemed quite amused by...uh...something.  I couldn't tell what it was.  The movie?  I guess it must've been the movie -- but if this is true, either the humor was deeply encoded and unreadable without a Bob Altman Fan Club Super-Secret Decoder Ring, or just not really humor at all.)I guess this is what Altman films are like; M.A.S.H. and Popeye are two of my least favorite films, and it's because of the self-same reasons. Too many characters to care about, goofily-obvious camerawork, a lip-service-only plot...Altman is respected, in truth, but to this reviewer's personal tastes, he's just a guy who makes movies I can live without.I'd recommend that you rent a Jeeves & Wooster tape or watch some British TV instead.  Better yet, go see Maggie Smith in something else -- she's terrific when she turns into a cat. "},{"Title":"A good Altman flick, not bad yet not great either","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There was nothing much about Robert Altman's latest film Gosford Park to have it up there with films like MASH, The Player or Cookie's Fortune, but that doesn't stop Altman and his usual huge ensemble to have a lot of entertaining fun with Altman and Balaban's original idea transformed by Julian Charnis' fine script.  In 1932 England, a shooting party is being held with a lot of aristocratic guests and Altman here examines the differences (and sometimes similarities) with the aristocrats and the servants and valets living in the same estate.  Then the story also sprawls into the realm of murder mystery, but like other Altman films, the characters are paid more attention to than the plot which could be tricky yet it is pulled off making this a stylish, joyous semi-comedy.  Large cast includes the likes of British veterans and newcomers including Michael Gambon, Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas, Derek Jacobi, Clive Owen, Emily Watson, Kelly MacDonald (her best performance since Trainspotting), Ryan Phillippe, Stephen Fry, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam and Balaban himself as a movie producer.  B+ "}{"Title":"The body in the library is virtually irrelevant","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A masterpiece. Robert Altman cut his teeth on big, multi-layered ensemble pieces like Nashville and Short Cuts. Even his break-through film, MASH, had a large number of characters and discordant stories running through it as well as an almost blatant disregard for conventional narrative. Still, you might have been forgiven for thinking that a British country house melodrama complete with body in the library and set in 1932 was beyond his range. Far from it. This wonderfully quick-witted movie is quite the equal of his very best work. The humour is certainly there in Julian Fellowes' script and the murder plot is something on an old chestnut, (the denouement is almost something of an irrelevance). What matters is the detail and Altman gets it right with an almost documentary-like precision. He is equally adept in dealing with the vagaries of those upstairs and down, (there is a pecking order among the servants, too), in a way that would not have disgraced Renoir. Indeed the film is at its best when picking away at the social mores, not just of the rich and their snobbish attitude to 'new' money but of those who serve them, (servants judge servants as much as by who they are and where they come from as their masters).In this, of course, Altman is greatly helped by his magnificent cast. It would be insidious to single any one performer out from another, so I won't, suffice to say that down to the tiniest part this is an extremely well-acted film. And like the best of Altman's work there is a wonderfully improvisatory feel to Julian Fellowes' screenplay. The original idea was Altman's and the actor Bob Balaban's, who also appears in the film. For the sake of entertainment they give us some broad comedy and a silly murder mystery by way of Agatha Christe presided over by a bumblingly daft Inspector of Clouseau-like incompetence played by Stephen Fry. But you know instinctively that this is not the real reason for Gosford Park. This is a precise and stingingly accurate piece of social history. I can't think of another director who could have pulled it off other than, maybe, Lindsay Anderson who seems to have been au fait with both sides of this particular coin. Anderson might have got it right but I doubt if he would have bettered it. "},{"Title":"I have a retraction to make...","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In my other comments I talked about how Maggie Smith carried the film... Well, as terrific as she does in her role, I have watched to movie on DVD a few times (I recommend subtitles for the mumbling...), I have come to realize that EVERY single person who acted in this movie carried it. The most deserved award this year of ANY award shows happened at the SAG Awards Gosford Park won for best ensemble cast.  How unfortunate for every actor BUT Hellen Miren (exceptional) and Maggie Smith (hilarious!) who didn't get nominated that should have.  "},{"Title":"Vintage Altman","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is indeed one of Robert Altman's best films. Third best of all that I've seen, following Nashville and 3 Women. Still, I am a tiny bit disappointed with it. I was hoping it would be next to Nashville and 3 Women. I'm not sure if it will even remain in the third spot in my mind for too long. It's not as memorable as many of his other films that may not be quite as good. In fact, at this point I feel more of an affinity for his last film, the unfairly despised Dr. T and the Women.Still, one can't at all watch Gosford Park without being amazed at it. It ranks along with the many great European films in this tradition. It is undoubtedly most influenced by Rules of the Game, directed by Jean Renoir in 1939. That film generally ranks at #2 out of every film ever made on the Sight and Sound polls, taken every decade (they're to be taken this year, 2002, for the seventh time since the poll's founding). I don't agree with its high status (refer to my own reviews, three of them, one individual and then two parts of a 1000+ word one, on imdb). I find it wonderful for the most part, but then it utterly falls apart by the end. Other films in the tradition include Ingmar Bergman's Smiles on a Summer Night, Luis Bunuel's Diary of a Chambermaid (incidentally a remake from an American film directed by Jean Renoir, which I have not seen), and, most recently, Thomas Vinterberg's Celebration, aka Dogme 1. These films all play with the relations between the master and servant class in varying degrees. Godford Park is perhaps the most complex in that respect it gives equal time to both sides, allowing for a lot of character identification. It also contains an enormous cast, as you might expect from Altman, and all of the characters are perfectly developed, also as you might expect. The acting is brilliant. Helen Mirren and Maggie Smith were singled out by Oscar voters, both receiving a Best Supporting Actress nomination, but I don't know how they chose between the two dozen actors and actresses in order to arrive at those two. Everyone is equal to them, and I imagine a lot of the actors who didn't make it were suggested by the Academy members. The direction, of course, is beautiful. It's on par with the rest of Altman - I don't think he's ever directed poorly, even in his bad films. The score is beautiful. Stephen Altman's production design is miraculous - it was nominated for an Oscar, but defeated by Moulin Rouge!. Moulin Rouge! is merely showy. The production design here is subtle as hell.I do find some fault in the script. Most of it is brilliant. It won the Oscar for Best Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen. I would have chosen Memento myself, but Gosford Park is nearly as deserving. The dialogue is always spot on, and the plot is fantastic - that is, until the murder. I'm not going to spoil anything, unless you didn't know that there was a murder (sorry if you didn't, but it was in all the ads!). It's just that the murder feels forced - a lot like the murder in Rules of the Game. It just never seems necessary, and what results from it is not as interesting as I would have hoped for. There's also a ton of setup for the murder in the plot, with tons of bottles of poison being shown and the victim nearly getting shot and so forth. And not enough results from it. The mystery is also not interesting. It was much more interesting - and in line with the theme - when the two groups were simply interacting. The explanation doesn't say anything that wasn't already implied, and some of the unforeseen relationships between the characters don't add as much weight to the drama as they are meant to.That's all a rather minor criticism, to tell the truth. It still works, it's just not as strong as I think it could have (or should have) been. Of course, Gosford Park does qualify as one of the best films of the year and a very worthy addition to Robert Altman's stunning cinema. I've seen around a dozen of his films, and, while I really haven't ranked many a 10/10 (only Nashville, very nearly my favorite film, and 3 Women), Altman has the rare distinction of producing a body of work that is actually greater than the sum of its parts. I give Gosford Park a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Good, good fun, so to say.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The English countryside atmosphere is established straight away, complete with a dreary rain shower in which the guests arrive. It was fun to see so many familiar faces, especially Maggie Smith from 'Downton Abbey' (which was made as sort of a sequel by the producers of this film - as I understand it). Laurence Fox (DC Hathaway in the TV-series 'Lewis') may easily be missed, since his part is very small. For the rest of them, just check the IMDb cast list.'Gosford park' is a somewhat chaotic movie. It's pretty hard to figure out who's who and what is exactly going on in all the nooks and crannies of the big estate, but if you stay focused, a first viewing should offer enough information to get the gist of things. There is of course a murder mystery, but not until late into the film. The most important themes aren't revealed until even later, either, so what remains for the bulk of the time, is the doings and dealings of the upstairs and downstairs population, which I found quite entertaining and intriguing to observe. The addition of an American movie director talking about making a detective film, was rather funny. And there's plenty more parts like that, of which I must mention Stephen Fry's detective character.Maybe the story is quite contrived, but it worked for me and Robert Altman's direction is always a pleasure to witness. There's a lot of fine acting here (of course), but I will probably never become a fan of Clive Owen; something about his presence is just plain dull to me.Good fun was had by all, so to say. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best commentary ever","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If, as I am, you're a fan of this movie, don't miss Julian Fellowes' wonderfully eloquent commentary on the DVD. It's just about the best thing of its kind, offering fascinating insights, not only into the various characters but also into the whole vanished world of English country houses and the complex cultures they contained, both upstairs and down. It turns out that even the tiniest details and bits of business in the film -- food and drink, clothing, pecking order, salutations, customs, rules of etiquette, etc. -- were carefully thought out and as authentic as Fellowes could make them. (He's also, for what it's worth, refreshingly generous when it comes to giving credit to his actors.)Altman also contributes a commentary on the DVD, but (like his commentary on Nashville) it's quite disappointing. He sounds old, a bit dim, and a little past it, as if he hasn't seen the movie in years and has forgotten most of it. That's okay; Gosford is still, to my mind, his best movie, and we do have Fellowes to interpret it for us. "},{"Title":"Enjoy the Weekend.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park (2001) Dir Robert Altman / Cast Helen Mirren, Emily Watson, Kelly MacDonald, Maggie Smith, Stephen Fry Gosford Park is seen as a playground for the rich. It is a murder mystery although the focus is on class. Plot centers upon a hunting party that arrives at the estate. They are observed through the eyes of their ever present servants. There is a murder and director Robert Altman makes everyone a suspect because everyone has a motive. This is remarkable craft by Altman who not only masters mystery elements but also an ensemble of characters that often appear together within the same frame. Altman's previous works include such classics as Nashville and M.A.S.H. Helen Mirren plays the strict head servant who keeps everything in order. Emily Watson is also a servant who gets caught up in an affair. Kelly MacDonald is the one servant who guides viewers through these events. She is portrayed as an innocent who tells of nothing outside of fact. Maggie Smith plays an elderly guest who belts out the funniest lines. Stephen Fry brings great comic relief as an inspector in that Sherlock Holmes tradition. Everyone delivers flawless performances as they interact within each scene and plotted social event. The story is set in 1932 and backed with exquisite art direction and a theme of wealth, class and placement render it one of Altman's greatest achievements. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"A proof of Altman's creative mind","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The 2000's was the worst decade of the cinema history. Of course, there were a few enjoyable films and even masterpieces, Altman's Gosford Park is stuck between the category of masterpiece and great work. This films is interesting from the very beginning till the end, while I was watching the film, I almost never cared for who was the murderer because it was so much fun watching the characters invented by Altman. If I was in a party, my guests would be the Gosford Park ones for sure, it even includes Ivor Novello, the star who's most famous role was in the silent Hitchcock masterpiece The Lodger. This film received the Academy Award for best screenplay (in the same year as Mulholland Drive), the plot was classical, but it still held my attention and even made me laugh throughout the 2h11m. The dialogs and the characters (that I've already mentioned) were very good and the adaptations by the actors were great too, not to mention the photography that I enjoyed a lot. For anyone who has seen Luis Buñuel Exterminating Angel before, will find some similarities, they both showed a dark side of the high society, but Gosford Park a even more degrading one, yet, still humorous. It is a film easy for anyone to like and I liked it, I wouldn't call this a masterpiece, but it is close. A must see to anyone. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park is not at all about class revolution, nor about fast cinema. It's like a ironic documentary, a scientist's experimental setting, of people and classes who are placed together in a closed surrounding, meeting each other, moving upwards and downwards, leading their own lives, being dependent on each other and pretending not to care. I just love the movie. Can see it over and over again - when you know the plot, you can drop the subtitles and concentrate even more on the whole. I love the extremely well worked-out interiors. Everything in that movie is done with a crazy care for detail up to the choice of cars (snobbish ladyship Trentham in a ways too old, once elegant model, the young folk in a sportive Bentley), the complexity of tasks, tools and handwork that the servants perform all the time, the subtle hints of the camera to what's going to take place... That movie shows a whole society in a nutshell. And when you know HOW it was done - with the advice of real servants on the set, original jewelery, right clothes and a lot of acting carefully like in the real old movies - you understand why it's so convincing. I love the complexity of the plot. So many lives and stories in that little universe every person's important. And never seen a more convincing way of telling important facts to the viewer in a very natural way. I loved the personages, and am still moved to tears at the end. No way, ten stars. "},{"Title":"Skillfully Written and Atmospheric","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Great to see right after The Trial (1963), master Welles' film. Altman, like Welles, uses the movement of the camera in the most adventurous ways, and in this respect alone this is a great ride. The camera moves so effortlessly amongst people it's exhilarating to watch. The hallways, corners, doors and the stairs. Everything is so beautifully dynamic.Not to mention that this is skillfully written and atmospheric. Most of the film is all about the dynamics between the people and how the camera, being one of them, sets in to the house. So we also as an audience are given our time to get acquainted with the labyrinth of a house, the corridors, stairs and especially the two overlapping lives of the people involved the masters above and their servants below. The great mystery is ultimately solved so elliptically that we realize it wasn't even the real mystery of the film to begin with. And of course there's the self- referential stuff of an actor playing a servant, and a film-producer making a Charlie Chan crime mystery into which the reality they're trying to emulate transforms itself.My favourite Altman by far. "},{"Title":"The mark is left","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" My emotions fervently cycled watching Robert Altman's Gosford Park. For the first half-hour, I found myself struggling to engage with the very loose narrative, eclectic characters, and dry, relatively ordinary conversations that lacked commonality or relatability on my behalf. After half-an-hour or so, Altman's motives became more clear to me. After an hour and a half, they were beyond crystal. Then the last forty-eight minutes became something of a slog for the mind and the heart.Altman's grandscale film will wow some people, bore others, alienate, detach, enchant, invigorate, and intrigue - some, like me, will experience all of those at least once - in its 138-minute runtime. A film like this deserved praise alone because its craft will be disposed of by some or justified and cherished by others. I doubt two will have the same ideas after viewing the picture as well. It's the kind of film where while you're watching it, you're already planning when you'll see it next.The film's story seems conventional and relatively cheap material, until Altman's intentions and direction becomes more vivid. It depicts a large gathering of wealthy Britons and their servants at the luxurious country house named Gosford Park. Actors such as Eileen Atkins, Alan Bates, Charles Dance, Stephen Fry, and Clive Owen portray these people, as they gather for a lavish weekend of shooting a film. However, if social classes and net worth weren't the only thing from dividing many of them, a murder occurs in the country house, leaving guests scrambling and searching for the killer and a possible motive. It doesn't help that half the house already hates another half of the house for some reason or another either.It took me about half an hour - well before the first murder event occurs - to realize the film attempts to show the mannerisms, behavior, and social classes of a large, selected group of Britons as they gather together for a weekend of enjoyment that turns into calamity. Altman has little interest in making this film a murder mystery or a film that relies heavily on clues. It's not about piecing it together; rather, it's about embracing culture and existing as a class-study, if anything.I feel that if you don't recognize this at some point during the film - or even before seeing it - your experience will be a boring and rather uneventful one. Because of this stylistic and rather meticulous focus added to the story, Gosford Park is sort of a challenge to watch even after you recognize it. However, it's a beautiful piece in regards to the acting and the slowburn writing, which many directors and writers would undoubtedly find a task to do. Altman doesn't really care if you agree with methods of storytelling; I'm not even sure he cares if you watch them. He wants to make his mark and go from there. His mark is definitely made with Gosford Park.Starring Eileen Atkins, Alan Bates, Charles Dance, Stephen Fry, Michael Gambon, Richard E. Grant, Derek Jacobi, Kelly Macdonald, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillippe, Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas, and Emily Watson. Directed by Robert Altman. "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford ParkThe best part of being a servant at an English country manor is getting to serve all that disgusting British food to your snooty aristocrat masters.Another plus, as this mystery points out, is all of the gossip.Sir William (Michael Gambon) and his wife (Kristin Scott Thomas) invite a countess (Maggie Smith), an actor (Jeremy Northam), a Hollywood producer (Bob Balaban) and additional Lords and Ladies to their bucolic estate for the weekend.Amid the affluent activities, the house servants (Helen Mirren, Richard E. Grant, Emily Watson) and the guests' attendants (Ryan Phillippe, Clive Owen, Kelly Macdonald) intermingle.But when the host turns up dead, everyone in the mansion becomes a suspect in Inspector Thomson's (Stephen Fry) inept investigation.While the mystery is subtle, the secret relationships between the class systems are blatant and, in some cases, taboo.Incidentally, the one thing that won't kill you in the English countryside is overexposure to the sun.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A bit overbearing","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" From what i remember of this film, its a pretty disorientating experience to watch. I cant imagine what the Americans make of it (since at least some of the cast though not immensely famous, some Brits may be familiar with). Since the film has no real global names (owen aside) i found it immensely difficult to keep up with since i was often thinking right so who is this now or right who are they talking about here. In truth while i don't dislike the film , i find its the type of story fitting for a drama series; if you're British you'll understand me when i say, the type you'd find on ITV. It's just a little overbearing to throw 20 different characters at the audience and expect them to know exactly who's who and exactly whats going on at all times. "},{"Title":"Gosford Park Is Good But Not Great","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park is a mystery comedy-drama film that stars an ensemble cast, which includes Helen Mirren, Maggie Smith, Eileen Atkins, Alan Bates, and Michael Gambon.Aside from that,it also features Charles Dance, Tom Hollander, Natasha Wightman, and Ron Webster.The story follows a party of wealthy Britons and an American and their servants, who gather for a shooting weekend at the English country house, Gosford Park. A murder occurs after a dinner party and the film goes on to present the subsequent investigation into it from both the servants' and the guests' perspectives.It was written by Julian Fellowes and directed by Robert Altman.Sir William McCordle and his wife Lady Sylvia are a pair of wealthy British socialites who have invited a variety of friends, relatives, and acquaintances to their mansion in the country for a weekend of hunting and relaxation. Among the honored guests are Constance, Lady Sylvia's matronly aunt; Ivor Novello, William's cousin who is also a well-known actor and songwriter; and Morris Weissman, an American film producer who is friendly with Ivor and researching an upcoming project. Observing the proceedings are the domestic staff of the mansion, including imperious butler Jennings (Alan Bates); footmen George and Arthur; Probert, a valet to Sir William; housekeeper Mrs. Wilson; Mrs. Croft, who oversees the kitchen; and Elsie, a maid. Also on hand are the guests' personal servants, including Mary, Constance's maid; Henry, Weissman's valet; and Parks, a butler. While the servants are required to display a high level of decorum, they are expected to be passive observers who do not comment on what they see, though the gossip among them travels thick and fast once they retire to the servants' quarters downstairs. And it turns out that there's plenty worth gossiping about, especially after Sir William turns up dead, and everyone is ordered to stay at the mansion while the police investigate the killing. This is a scintillating comedy-drama and one of Altman's most richly moving and entertaining pictures as contents and style converge smoothly and seductively in this luxuriant period drama that applies Agatha Christie murder-mystery format to a rigorous anatomy of British class structure in the 1930s, with all the who's who in U.K. in the cast.Also,it juggles about thirty different characters, moving them from the upper-class upstairs to the servants' quarters and the movie does so without losing the audience.It is is slow, but it does eventually lead of to a murder,which happens to be the main focus of the film, but at the same time it emphasizes the entangled relationships of everyone in the house. I think that's the reason this film succeeds despite of its negative flaws which makes it at least a good film but not a great one. "},{"Title":"A witty drama, exploring the actions pre- and post-murder...","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I know most will not want to watch this film after the following description, but please read on, at least. Gosford Park is unique. Like M, it's not about the murder. It's about the effects of it. The director sets a stage before your eyes, without you noticing it. Then suddenly the curtain pulls up and you see what's happened! A very clever period drama (and comedy) about a dysfunctional party of people, with complex ties between them. The masters and the servants are supposed to be separated, but neither side clings to that rule. Filled with tons of actors and actresses that you could swear you've seen somewhere else, all of them brilliant and mostly very British. Watch this if you're willing to try something totally new. Ages 16 and up "},{"Title":"Perhaps the butler did it.","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Knowing this was a murder mystery, it was perhaps an hour into the film and it seemed like absolutely nothing was going on, yet I found myself oddly captivated by the characters and relationships on display. I'm a rather laid back guy who isn't much impressed by the snootiness of socialites and those who think they're better than the rest. So it's rather revealing to be a voyeur into this 1930's world of English royalty and see that, you know what, they're really no better than the rest.As a movie fan, I was also quite intrigued with the constant movie references, and was quick to recognize Ivor Norvello's name as an actor of the era who appeared in the film mentioned in the story. In fact, just like the murder victim here, the real Norvello actually did it twice! The first time was for Hitchcock in a 1927 silent picture - it's actual title The Lodger A Story of the London Fog. Five years later, Norvello reprised his original role in the first talkie remake of The Lodger titled The Phantom Fiend. For me it's a toss-up choosing between the two, as they each have somewhat different endings for essentially the same story.What's really cleverly done here is the actual murder itself. Though the identity of the killer we see is kept under wraps, it's not until the story progresses that we learn that Sir William McCordle was already dead by the time he was 'stabbed to death'. As intriguing as the story is up to that point, it gets even more mysterious on the way to revealing the real participants in the crime and their relationship to each other.Obviously this won't be every movie viewer's cup of English tea, as it plays out over a two hour span, and as mentioned earlier, nothing really seems to go on until the pheasant hunt and the eventual murder. However if you have some patience, you'll be rewarded with an insider's view of life both upstairs and downstairs as it were, and see just how catty both the upper and lower crusts can be. All as a backdrop for a stylish whodunit in a grand setting. Charlie Chan would have been proud. "},{"Title":"The Mysterious Affair of Altman","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Delightfully odd is what I call Gosford Park. Without getting as picky as many other reviews floating around, I'd say this cross of an Agatha Christie Ms. Marple mixed with Howard's End. Even then, I'm making it seem quite dark - which it isn't. This is the most entertaining ensemble piece I've seen in a very long time and Altman has an effortless touch with so many legendary actors crammed into an old house around a dead body.In a sense, there's almost too much going on for the film's own good. In the last third, some characters drift in and out of the narrative simply because the plot gets in the way which is a disappointment compared to the first chunk of the film. Before the body turns up, it's less a forced setup for suspects than a supreme exercise in just hanging out. Howard Hawks made a western in the same style with John Wayne, Dean Martin, Walter Brennan and Ricky Nelson called Rio Bravo. There too do we get caught up in the daily musings and sing song of some old friends locked in a jail house. There too does the film lose steam when the story gets in the way. But here, one must congratulate Altman for corralling so much talent and funneling it into something genuinely entertaining and, at times, even absorbing.Gosford Park is a victim of it's quality. There's so much to see and so much to tell, when he gets around to making a movie out of it, it's just not as interesting as what came before. Even so, there's few other movies I've seen in the last 20 years that offer so much for your time. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman has depicted the gory details of Nashville without much restraint. But, the most wonderful aspect of the film is that the director has not lost focus of his story and instead of focusing too much on the holocaust horror he has weaved the true-life narrative of survival around devillish happenings.Every single act of escapade of Altman's goes through is depicted like a drop of water on a barren desert. However, the Oasis in the driest desert comes in the end and it is here that Polanski captures the essence of human emotion. I had this very strong urge of jumping into the theater screen and magically adopting a character in the movie and doing something about the helplesness portrayed so convincingly.Overall, Altman has given a stunning visual narrative of the cold war. Survival indeed is a privilege though it is taken for granted today. Performances by Brody, Kretschmann deserve applause.Pawel Edelman's camera work is moving and he has brilliantly captured the dark sadness in the visual canvas in an effective way. The lighting is amazing. Pre-dawn shooting schedule could have helped a great deal.Hervé de Luze's editing work has ensured that the narrative does not slip away from focus. Most notable is the scene where the human bodies are lit on fire and the camera raises to show the smoke. The darkness of the smoke is enhanced and is used effectively to fade the scene out.Great film that will be in the running for this year's Oscars. I will give it a 9 Out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Long Goodbye","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman has been doing his own thing for so long and with so much devotion to elaborate on original craft that we have an adjective for it Altmanesque.What this means is that instead of jotting down on paper a part of real world and then bringing gears around it to illustrate how it should move, he brings people together and allows them to improvise that world from a vague outline. He trusts this kind of motion to be real. What he requires is that his camera is one of the company, improvises along and is in turn imbued with a real gaze. The collaborative process is akin to a jazz ensemble; everyone in turns providing rhythm and soloing where is room to do so. Usually he tries to spin two or more plates together so that every story-specific notion bounces back and forth increasingly abstract. In Nashville it was politics and music. In his genre films, the genre is one of the plates and always deconstructed.So another Altman film; another large cast mostly stellar and acquitting themselves well, whodunit for the genre. Another layer referencing class relations in 1930's England and trusting these haven't changed a hell of a lot so that we hang on them our own frustrations.Upstairs mingles aristocracy about to be swept aside by the tide of events. There is wanton secrecy and intrigue, luxurious boredom. Greed, with money always defining the state of affairs. Down below are the servants, arranging themselves after their masters above. It doesn't matter who they are, only who they belong to.In ordinary hands these would be enough to create a dramatic situation that employed for added tension one or the other of the whodunit tropes. We know for example there's going to be a murder at some point and the culprit is going to be one of many people we have closely followed all this time. We know furthermore that it's going to take some deductive logic on our part as we try to anticipate disaster. The game would be between the film and us, with us called to evaluate facts faster than the film can obfuscate them.Altman of course deconstructs as anticipated. It takes a long time before the event occurs, and the ensuing investigation unfolds helter skelter with clues swept aside and our police investigator always interrupted before he can even announce his name. No one is paying him or the case much mind. Officially at least the murder goes unsolved but not just for inept justice, mostly because no one really gives a damn either way.This is okay but slight and has been already milked for comedy several times. Luckily this is a more ambitious project the third layer is about film, in general and the film we are watching.There is a Hollywood producer with his star in the midst of this, both of them researching real people for what we learn is a Charlie Chan film, the most formulaic whodunit. There is a marvellous scene where our actor performs on the piano in a way that binds together the imagination of the whole house, up and down. Down below is another actor we soon learn, another maker masquerading as a servant. Perhaps now we get to note how everyone is acting some part and performs in company. We get to note a collaborative process criss-crossing the two worlds that sustains polished appearances. At the root is sex and money. Save for our murderer but even this is duplicitous because it was not one but two. One of them was much more talented and anticipated the narrative.So for all intents and purposes, this is a solid, complex work about the effort to surmise truth from a fictional wrap-around, emotional truth about life. I just can't bring myself to rate any higher because this was anticipated by the likes of Jacques Rivette and Greenaway even better. "},{"Title":"Exactly what you want it to be.","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park started out like Robert Altman's other ensemble pieces for me, so many characters that felt the same colliding in this overwhelming cluster that I couldn't find a place for myself in. However while his other works of the many-casted variety pushed me further and further away as they went on, this did the opposite and managed to bring me in more and more.His technique in shooting this was remarkable and absolutely perfect for the setting in which the story is staged. By having two cameras constantly moving at all times, it truly felt as though we were absorbed into the middle of this early 20th century English house, becoming a part of the gossip and the class disputes. I don't think a film of this nature could have been directed any better than how Altman did it.The thing that holds it back a lot for me is the script, which piles on way too many characters so the thing can never properly gain it's footing. The overall experience felt properly done but there were just too many people. Even at the end of the film there were times where two characters would be talking and they'd mentioned someone and I would have no idea who they were talking about. The (mostly) tremendous cast manages to make up for a lot of this, by bringing great depth without a lot of screen time, but it still feels like this would have been better suited with a longer duration. A lot of the more integral dynamics feel underdeveloped, despite the best effort of the cast.I also had a problem with how closed off the whole thing was. It couldn't (re shouldn't) have been done any other way, but the muteness kept me at a distance for the whole thing, so in some of the more emotional moments my reaction wasn't as strong as it could have been.Still, there's much, much more to admire here than there is to criticize. Altman's technique is tremendous and he was able to gather together a fine ensemble cast to play out these cold creatures. Helen Mirren is heartbreaking, Kristin Scott Thomas is always the perfect bitch, Emily Watson and Kelly Macdonald bring a human touch to the piece and Clive Owen again demonstrates that he has a lot of talent that he hasn't been putting to proper use lately. A good film that has some writing flaws that prevent it from being a great one. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining Film","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film is set at an English country house where guests have been invited for a weekend of shooting. What makes this film unique is that it is mainly concerned with the servants below stairs. It is a hilarious look at the inability of the English aristocracy to care for themselves without assistance. Although the upper class can't seem to get by without them, the servants are totally ignored if they aren't catering to some whim. And that's just the beginning of the antics in this modern-day farce.When a murder occurs, even the police are treated as an inconvenience by the guests. There are plenty of intrigues going on as well, and there's more than one surprise in the final reel!Robert Altman directs this wonderful film starring (among others) Helen Mirren and Maggie Smith. To those who say it is boring or slow or cliché, I can only say you've missed the point. The film is designed as a combination of a comedy and a drama. "}{"Title":"More an exercise in filmmaking than a real film","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" What an experience watching the opening credits and seeing name after famous name popping up. A shame the rest of this long-winded movie couldn't equal those giddy heights.After about an hour or so of watching this supposed murder mystery, I realised that Robert Altman wasn't interested in making a mystery film at all. Instead, this is the classic upstairs/downstairs drama, exploring the interactions between upper class twits and their servants during the 1930s. Anyone who's seen DOWNTON ABBEY, REMAINS OF THE DAY or, indeed, UPSTAIRS, DOWNSTAIRS will know what they're getting into here.I was entertained, but not overly so. The film did a good job of getting the different characters interacting, and the twists and humour when they come are good. But the use of a huge cast sacrifices any emotion, leaving this a very cold, technical exercise in filmmaking and something I wouldn't want to experience a second time. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully enjoyable Altman film","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" While this is arguably not quite a great movie, its certainly a very good, very enjoyable one. Wonderfully acted by an amazing ensemble cast, and shot with delicate grace, It may not add up to more than the sum of it's parts, and the murder mystery that takes up the last 30 minutes is more obvious and less graceful than what precedes it. But its so full of funny and occasionally moving moments, wonderful bits of dialogue, and tremendous texture, that it's lack of a deeper punch, while slightly disappointing, takes little away from a terrific film. "},{"Title":"A most subdued Agatha Christie.","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The classic set-up for what many see as a murder mystery is shaken up and given a good thrashing in Robert Altman's Gosford Park, taking the form and context of such an episode and practically paying no attention to the actual murder. Indeed, the murder doesn't even take place until well over an hour into the film and by the end we get somewhat of an explanation as to the who and why, but all that is an aside.Typical of Altman, what he attempts to do, and succeeds brilliantly at, is show all facets of what ordinarily wouldn't be shown in the stories of Christie and other famous British murder-mystery writers. In most cases, the servants are involved one way or another yet are hardly used in the narrative until the climax. Here, Altman uses his gliding camera and overlapping dialogue to explore and find out information about all the characters, be they high-ranking or low. Here, the servants' gossip and information is just as important, if not more so, than that of the people sitting outside in the dining room with nothing to do but immerse themselves in idle chatter and sardonic wit about others less fortunate than themselves.In many ways, Altman observes this dry behavior of the typical stuffy British aristocrats and is somewhat poking fun at them. Yet, he still maintains a veil of sympathy and we still care for many of these characters, particularly the under-appreciated staff. As I said before, the murder is quite unimportant yet still provides some interesting surprises at the end. As a fan of Altman, this doesn't rank with MASH, McCabe & Mrs. Miller, Nashville, or 3 Women. But, it is a breath of fresh air in the unbelievably stuffy British murder-mystery genre. "},{"Title":"The Land of Might-Have-Been","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The bedrock of Robert Altman's Gosford Park is Jean Renoir's 1939 classic, The Rules of The Game. Both films take place at a magnificent country estate, and both delve into the lives of the upper classes and their dutiful servants. In Renoir's film, masters and servants seem to exist separately, occasionally crossing and colliding. With Altman, however, both domains intimately intertwine.Like Altman's Cookie's Fortune, which examined the baggage of race in modern America, Park's characters are trapped in a stratified class system. Both films are also preoccupied with the way in which the past maintains an iron grip on the present, affecting how we think, view and judge others.Take Morris Weissman, a character staying at Gosford Park's country estate. Weissman is condescended to by everyone in the film, not only because he is bourgeois, but because he is Jewish. One woman's desire to remain uninvolved in a court case epitomizes these attitudes, her wishes echoing the silence that permitted early 20th century anti-Semitism to flourish. When other characters mention that they don't know whether Weissman is a producer or a director, or even what the difference is, they mean, but of course don't openly state, that nothing at all matters about him. He is dismissed for his very social class and his very Jewishness.But it isn't only Jews who suffer disdain. Would you stop snivelling? One might think you were Italian! one character growls, pointing to both the universal reach of British xenophobia and the high value placed on withholding emotional expression.A hunting sequence in Renoir's film became Renoir's metaphor for warfare. Altman's similarly staged sequence suggests something else; the picking off any and all undesirables, be they dirty Jews, pompous men of wealth, the lower classes or illegitimate babies.More specifically, everyone in Altman's film struggles to tolerate someone whom they wish they could just brush aside but ultimately can't because they're pinned behind a mask of civility and exist in a kind of sprawling, symbiotic relationship with everyone else. The owner of the country mansion, a man called Sir William, for example, helps maintain the lives of various relatives and hangers-on. But his wealth is itself the product of the many barely subsistent wage-earners who work in his sweatshop factories.Gosford Park was written by Julian Fellowes, a shameless reactionary. Throughout most of his work, Fellowes puts forth the notion that, as everyone in society ultimately parasites off someone else the class system is therefore morally sound and mutually beneficial. We see traces of such thinking in Gosford Park; privileged men and woman rely on servants for sex, countesses depend on loans and allowances, aristocrats and businessmen depend on deals and alliances, wives and husbands depend on tactical marriages, artists depend on financiers and servants and butlers depend on the scraps thrown down to them by their masters.Altman, an aging hippie with a strong anti-establishment streak (he heavily re-wrote Fellowes' script), understandably focuses on such scraps. The film's servants, of course, have inferior beds, accommodation, clothes, food etc. That is to be expected. But consider one scene in which servants gather on a stairwell to listen to a musician entertaining his fellow guests upstairs. What the servants hear sounds like echoes of music rather than actual music the sonic equivalent of table scraps. Why do we have to live our lives through them? one servant says, realising that their very dreams, desires and interests oft amount to but discarded leftovers.Just as sex mixed races in Cookie's Fortune, sex mixes classes in Gosford Park. Years ago, Sir William impregnated some of the women who worked in his factory. William then discarded these babies, an act which leads, quite literally, to the past coming back to kill him, as one of the adopted babies (now grown up) infiltrates the mansion and kills Sir William.The second half of the film thus becomes a murder mystery, a whodunit akin to Agatha Cristie novels or the board-game Cluedo. But Thompson, the funny and incompetent police detective who investigates the case, can't find the killer precisely because he is locked into thinking in terms of class boxes and precisely because everyone had justifications for wanting William dead. This working-class inspector announces that he will probe upstairs only, that is to say, only those who had something to do with Sir William, as though no one downstairs conceivably might have had anything to do with him. Our detective so heavily buys into England's class structure that he halts his judgement so that he may submit to the authority of his betters. In short, he is ultimately not in charge of his investigation; those he is investigating are.This being Altman, the film is also implicitly about film-making. Three artists - Novello (musician), Denton (actor) and Weissman (a producer in the film and also Park's producer in real life) - bridge the upper and lower classes, neither belonging upstairs with the aristocrats or downstairs with the servants. Likewise, the artists must go undercover when both upstairs and downstairs, Denton pretending to be a servant and Weissman and Novello pretending to be straight and sophisticated (they're both homosexual). Weissman is also associated with Charlie Chan detective movies and The Lodger, Hitchcock's first film to utilise a roaming, curious camera. Playing out behind the film's drama is thus a meta-comment on film-making, Altman the classless artist who infiltrates, roams and reports upon both domains, but remains forever dependent on the money-men upstairs. This is director as both dutiful slave to his improvising cast and ignorant financiers, and the God behind the whole proceedings (Weissman is reflexively brainstorming the film we're watching). Fittingly, Gosford Park ends with the song The Land of Might-Have-Been, its lyrics (Somewhere there's another land, far more mercifully planned than the cruel place we know) longing for new modes of social organisation.9/10 &#x96; Masterpiece. See The Remains of the Day and Eyes Wide Shut. "},{"Title":"Would you watch this again?","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie with my aunt, a woman of 90, though in decline still intelligent or at least persistent. In the course of the movie I made my guesses about the murder. They were correct. After it was over, I spent a lot of time talking about the confusion and about Robert Altman. I told her about the first Altman movie I had seen, McCabe and Mrs. Miller. I told her about the pioneering of the rumble. You enter a room with many people talking. You cannot figure out what any one person is saying. I told her about Alman's interest in sociology, how people interact and how it relates to the world around them. She was fascinated. She thought how neat I was. It was entertaining to listen to me. I did not care about that. As I thought about what I was saying to her, I said the movie was interesting as an intellectual puzzle. It did not engage me emotionally. Though I did not say this to her, the cri de coeur of Helen Mirren, I found very startling. I did not understand her cry, until it was explained in the movie. I volunteered the most important point. I knew what the movie had to say and I would never watch it again. Gosford Park is a Rubic's cube that I had solved, The Remains of the Day is a movie that I would watch again. "},{"Title":"Acting heaven","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A really very good film perilously overburdened with premium acting talent. In the Altman fashion the story - a standard whodunnit - becomes the armature for a whirl of vignettes. It is a marvel that one can follow the tapestry of subplots at all (and a great testament to the sound engineers, who coherently capture and mix much of the simultaneous dialogue). The tidal rush of ensemble and intimate action means that the big twist is one of a number of revelations (this is as much a wothappened as a whodunnit) and Altman thoughtfully provides a powerful melodramatic catharsis in its place.I liked the script and its committal to film immensely; so understated, so sharp and full of character. As for the characters themselves, this film seethes with the cream operating at their finest. It's so wonderful to watch. I think that Kelly McDonald, Emily Watson and Clive Owen may be the most sympathetic but only as the least anachronistic symbols as their contribution is only from the same top drawer as all the others.Two small gripes. Stephen Fry is a notable exception to the otherwise unimpeachable cast. The excuse may be that he was a late replacement for Kenneth Branagh, but with a great traditon of The Inspector's Arrival in such a film (Dial M For Murder, An Inspector Calls, any Poirot), this role is too important to have compromised on. Also, the film doesn't tell me anything much. But actually, I don't care about this, and after having been a party to Olympian acting for 2 hours, you won't either. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Old fashioned crime story but good movie","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a crime story that leads us to the memories of Agatha Christie's books since it creates an atmosphere so similar to that of her novels. We are expecting to see Monsieur Poirot enter anytime during the second half of the movie. But putting this idea aside it's really a good movie with its atmosphere of an old aristocratic British mansion in the thirties of last century with all its lordships and ladyships, guests and their servants above all. The characters are all very interesting and well depicted in images and dialogues by an extremely good cast of actors and actresses. This is really the most important part of the movie and we get the impression that the murder that pops in suddenly in the middle of the movie is a mere pretext to give a plot to its story otherwise we would be left with no more that a lot of sketches and scenes regarding this or that couple of characters often with no relation between them. The murder story is indeed the weakest part of the movie and is not totally explained in clear terms being a bit confusing in terms of who did what, why and how. Nevertheless we feel ourselves compensated by watching this impeccable typically British aristocratic atmosphere of the time, the relations among its members and the servants'lives and their different behaviour in front of their masters and behind their backs including their opinions and comments about those same masters. One last word to the scenery and particularly to the mansion interior which is gorgeous and contributes to its realistic view totally adequate to the general atmosphere of the story. "},{"Title":"Why this is worth two viewings","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Won Oscar for screenplay in 2001. Very well made film, and one of Robert Altman's best. Beyond perfecting the old murder mystery dinner party genre, it dwells on this odd microcosm of snobbery versus unaffected love, and of the deeper mystery of class and exploitation amid a specifically British idiom of keeping one's chin up and one's lip stiff. This is done with charming wit mixed equally with genuine passion, if understated then all the more effective. Altman's camera moves fluidly among the layers and nooks of this mansion, capturing the interplay of private moments and public scenes. The ensemble cast is as great as it is very large, and the challenge for any viewer is to keep track of who's who. I sense that the average person, like me, will require two viewings to appreciate the achievement of this film. "},{"Title":"What lurks beneath.","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's 1930s England. Benefactor William MacCordle (Michael Gambon) has invited his friends over for a weekend shooting party. While it's a time to catch up on the old times, there is more than it meets the eye.It seems that everyone just wants to get him and his money. Other than the dinners and the parties, a shooting party changed the course of events. From William's friends to his servants, a complicated tale unfolds.But how far will each person goes to get what he/she wants? It's very quintessentially English and it showed throughout the film. With various stories being thrown in, it makes the film all the more interesting. "},{"Title":"A good idea, somewhat awkwardly expressed.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I tuned in to watch this film, because England between the wars is a period that fascinates me, and the wealthy/aristocracy of this period are of particular interest. The film is set in 1932 at a shooting party in a country house, owned by a wealthy man who has made the crossover from trade to landed gentry. So in theory straight away you have a class tension. However, I found right from the start that the story itself seemed stiff and unnatural. For instance Henry would have been picked up straight away as incredibly insolent servant, and Mr Jennings would have had something to say about that.The casting was excellent, with several of Britain's best thespians being cast stunningly against type. I particularly enjoyed Richard E Grant's remarkably restrained performance, and Sir Derek Jacobi was superb too. Maggie Smith's performance was amazing, in probably the most irritating part of her long and illustrious career. I was somewhat at a loss to understand what Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam) was actually doing at the party, unless it was simply an opportunity to use his music as part of the soundtrack, so it seemed a particularly awkward plot device used to introduce Weissmann into the house.This is not a bad movie, the period feels right and the performances rise above a story which does not go anywhere very quickly. I just found it a little long and somewhat clunky in parts. Enjoy it for its revealing interactions and ignore the odd awkward plot device that does not really make a great deal of sense. "}{"Title":"A cinematic portrait of post WWI British aristocracy.","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" GOSFORD PARK is definitely not a standard whodunnit movie with winding plot twists and suspenseful sequences that keep the viewer on the edge of the sofa from beginning to end. Instead, it's a brilliantly produced film that gives a fluid portrayal of British aristocracy circa the 1930s. Viewers expecting a story with a Doyle or Agatha Christie twist could be disappointed from watching this film due to the movie being a complex drama versus a mystery. However, there are two good things about this movie that really captured my attention 1)the pompous-like British aristocrats and 2) the servants that attend them.The film itself gives a generally realistic look at upper-class British life through the guise of Lord William and his guests. Secluded from society in a countryside manor, we see the goals and motivations that drive the characters. I guess what really impressed me about this group of characters was the contempt that I felt for most of them. Apart from a few of the guests, the majority portrayed in the film were conceited, vain, and just utterly selfish. I simply loathed most of the assemblage, and I think this is why I particularly admired the quality of the film. Simply, this is a film depicting the lives of these individuals and their interwoven relationships.While displaying a collection of pompous aristocrats, the film does a great job juxtaposing that same group with the servants of the manor. I particularly enjoyed the attention to detail that was used in filming the actors that performed as butlers, valets, cooks, maids, and chauffeurs. Through their eyes we see the challenges they faced, both professionally and personally. One crucial scene that I thought was powerful, although brief, was Elsie's flagrant outburst against Lord William's wife in the middle of a dinner party. The timing of that particular dialog was exact, tense, and well placed. Kudos to the director.There are probably five or six other reasons that I could use in convincing anyone to go see this film. The only negative thing I'd have to say about the story overall is that most of the plot dragged in certain places and was a bit slow-paced. I'd have to give it a 7 out of ten for that, but overall a good film to watch. "},{"Title":"Enigma Machine","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This won Best Script at the Oscars yet, like 'MASH', relies less on the concrete dialog and more on what's comfortable with the actors.  The stupidity of the Academy of Fools is flaunted yet again.This is your only spoiler warning...2001 gave us interesting works by so many different directors.  As much as I liked Ridley Scott, my preference went with David Lynch.  That's where this movie failed.  There was no mixing of narratives that Lynch is infamous for so, once again, Altman doesn't get my credit.Interestingly though, this movie showed a departure from Altman's 'MASH' train of thought.  Oh sure, it uses his old subtexts (social commentary, class difference), but that's background here.  The marked departure rests in the style of acting.  The servants are better actors than the ruling class, that's the biggest irony here.  The authority figure is a twit, but I'm that was intended.  I'll avoid critiquing on the British class system since the film speaks for itself.  It's like expecting a Brit to explain the American reaction to Vietnam.  Oh well, what difference would that make?  It's their problem.One of my few abilities is making sense out of the incomprehensible.  No, I'm not Sherlock Holmes.  I'm not a detective, but it allows me to understand some of the most confusing material Hollywood throws at us.  'Planet of the Apes'?  No problem, but that's a different review.  What's clever here is the placement of mystery within mystery, shifting the realm of narrative space.  Similarly, Altman relies on creating varied depth of space by moving around our characters and environments.The editing here is also interesting.  There is a rhythm to the cuts, but not a predictable rhyme.  Michael Bay and even Spielberg have predictable cuts with some rhyme.  Meanwhile, the sound editors probably had a grand old time mixing the dialog.  What a detailed experience...Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"A superb, witty, graceful, beautiful piece of art","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yet someone comments It contains nothing for the North American audience. (take a deep breath. calm down) It's not SET in North America, no. But Altman and Balaban have still crow-barred in two american characters and a Hollywood actor from the time. The main complaint about this film seems to be that it is nota) more exciting, action-packed, etc. b) Oh, I can't go on. My blood pressure can't make it. No, contrary to all your carefully deliberated expectations this turned out not to be Terminator 3.I just watched it for the third time and it's better, more precisely observed, intelligent than any other film that came out of the US in 2001. The fact that while publicising this film Altman was lambasted at home for unpatriotic statements when he flew in WORLD WAR TWO against Japan sums up an awful lot of things that are best left unmentioned. "},{"Title":"A character study..and that's all!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"   A film that irritates many upon it's first viewing (and for many the ONLY viewing!) I feel that Gosford Park is only good in the sense that it hints upon thru it's far too many characters the interactive relationships between the servant class and the upper class. I do not consider this a murder mystery or a comedy(where the H**L did the promoters of this film get the idea that this was a COMEDY??!)  There is not enough character development for the important characters and there are far too many distractions! The film is overlong considering the content and the ending is rather abrupt. I do feel despite all of this that it a OK film but it's NOT GREAT by any means. However I do find it's still worth a look but it's not for everyone. This film requires a lot of patience to watch and you need to be feeling ALERT, calm and have NO DISTRACTIONS while watching or you will miss something! I feel this sort of film was done better in the past and the sad truth is this may be another example of today's Hollywood and critics losing their way by holding this film up to such high esteem. People have such short memories that they will accept ANYTHING if they are hungry enough. Has everyone in the business forgotten the past??! It's as if all the old masters have died and no one really learned or cared how to follow and grow in their footsteps. The feeling I get once again is that Hollywood can never make rich films again along the lines of The Sound and The Fury or Murder on The Orient Express because it conviently castrated it's creativity in the name of heavily marketed pretentious McDonald's style film products geared to target audiences. Sadly it's become ALL about the bottom line and even LESS about the ART. "},{"Title":"Good film, if you're ready for it.","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ***SPOILERS*** Gosford Park was an exceptionally good film... if you concentrated enough to make out what the words are (confession  time... i have to turn on subtitles).While there is a murder-mystery involved in the plot, it is not entirely what the movie is about. The plot focuses more on the interaction between servants and their masters than on the murder itself. A lot of the dialogue is subtle, but almost all of it is vital to the plot.Sorry, if you're looking for dead bodies to pile up, don't watch this. Watch Last Man Standing. This film has the feel of a good book successfully converted to movie form. "},{"Title":"acting compensates for lousy premise","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie's purpose is to reflect the year 1932 which consisted of growing anticipation for movies and actors, a vast gap between the rich and poor, a time where the class system still held a lot of weight, and lastly of course where would we be without drivel gossip. Sir William McCordle, the master of the house, has a shooting party and invites his family for the occasion. Sir William's cousin Ivor Novello, an actor in his own right, brings along a buddy, Hollywood Producer Mr. Weissman. His entourage consists of Henry Denton played by an accented Ryan Phillipe. The main character is Mary Maceachran, played by Kelly Macdonald, maid to Constance, Countess of Trentham, cousin to Sir William. Spoilers. We soon begin to realize that everybody seems to be reliant on either an inheritance or allowance from the master of the house. When he is abruptly murdered, investigators suspect the affluent upstairs. It soon comes to light that Sir William had relations elsewhere as well, could it be downstairs?  It becomes evident that William's fortune failed to draw boundaries where humans were concerned; ironically his own offspring waits on him. Through the movie Mary observes the characters and goes about her business mostly unnerved by her observations until the murderer is revealed. The movie also offers some interesting traditions. The servants sat in an order coordinated to that of their master's rank and were referred to by their master's last name. The movie had numerous characters and it was occasionally overwhelming to grasp them. The ending was abrupt but the former part of the movie has a lot to offer and was enjoyable. The acting was good and compensated for the lousy premise. Was by no means a comedy.  "},{"Title":"Does not give movie away, comments on actors and director","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had heard lots of buzz surrounding the movie Gosford Park and have been a Robert Altamn fan for quite some time, but when I finally rented the movie, I was even more impressed with the ensemble British cast and the humorous storyline.  Gosford is definitely a must see- and as the only American, Ryan Phillippe delivers a strong performance.  The movie comes to pay per view tomorrow, and I would recommend viewing it that way because it is hard to find in the rental stores.   "},{"Title":"A lovely, clever and subtle period piece; if you can slow down to its pace ...","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A lovely film - and if you're the type of person who would never describe a film as 'lovely' this is probably the first warning that you may not like Gosford Park.If you're wanting to see a period murder mystery a la Agatha Christie you may have to think again because though this has many of the same elements if you watch it for the mystery part you could be disappointed. It was, in my opinion a little misleadingly, advertised as such - Tea At Four. Dinner At Eight. Murder At Midnight but I suppose advertising it with the tagline - Tea At Four. Dinner At Eight. Up Early for Shooting Pheasant isn't really going to bring in the crowds ...If the murder mystery part is not so important to you, however, and you want to see a wonderful period piece, with great actors and acting, a very subtle, dark humour full of character interaction this may be for you.I won't really go into the murder plot - it happens so late in the film and is practically given a back seat to the fact it has inconvenienced all the rest of the guests (and staff) that it's virtually secondary to their interactions. Actually it is really only there to hang this 'study' onto and to make a specific point at the end of the film. This is a weakness for sure and I would have preferred more emphasis on this and the resulting ending but that flaw is not a fatal one when you have a cast like this for a period drama;   Maggie Smith Room With a View, Harry Potter - faultless as the visiting Countess   Michael Gambon Singing Detective- the host, Sir William, with his hands on too many people's purse strings   Kristen Scott Thomas Four Weddings ..., English Patient - born to play a 1930s Lady and does so here with brilliance   Charles Dance Last Action Hero, Dark Blue World - the English Lord    Helen Mirren Prime Suspect, Madness of King George - the perfect housekeeper   Derek Jacobi Cadfael, Hamlet - leading the household servants   Alan Bates Love in a Cold Climate, Hamlet - a superb butler   Richard E Grant Scarlet Pimpernel- George the 1st footman, always off for a crafty smoke   Stephen Fry Peter's Friends, Wilde - the bumbling police inspector ... and many more who play their parts perfectly - the Lord who married beneath himself for money, the suspicious wife, a visiting American film producer, downstairs staff and upstairs guests having affairs both within in without of their station, the relatives requiring investments, a man with a mystery past, the military men, the men who avoided the military ... all this and Ivor Novello too. All have some secrets and almost all of them are revealed by the end of this movie.Actually Stephen Fry as the police inspector to me was the only small let down. I think his humour, though exceptionally well done, lacked the subtlety and darkness seen throughout the rest of the picture so stood out as a bit of an incongruity ... nevertheless he got away with it and I'm sure for many his will be the funniest bits of the film!It has been alleged that the film is very hard to hear with many (mostly seemingly US citizens) needing to use subtitles to catch all being said due to more than one person speaking at once and or speaking in a quiet voice plus being a difficult film to follow anyway. Yes, you do have to concentrate to keep up with the characters because of their large number, intricate machinations and (usually sordid and or selfish) intentions but I must say, as an Englishman I had no problem with making out the dialogue and various accents (even the many Scottish ones <g>). In fact I found the way voices were overlapped and heard in the background simply added not only to the realism but also the atmosphere ... no permanent rumble of traffic or piped music in the background just the low mumble of half-heard voices.Atmosphere - that's really a lot of what this film is about after all. It tries, and in my opinion succeeds, in capturing the atmosphere of the 30s (it is set in 1932) - of the slower pace of life, of the distinct class attitudes from both Upstairs and Downstairs and of the interactions of people of that age. This may be why the film seems so slow to many viewers that are used to the fast pacing and deliberate plotting of a modern Hollywood movie.In fact anyone used to the fast pacing of modern life, let alone films, *may* find it hard to slow down and appreciate the grandeur of this film and to express my thoughts below is a table of the present scoring received on the IMdB by a modern comedy (I've chosen Something About Mary as a popular comedy with the exact opposite type of humour) and Gosford Park. Obviously this is a coarse tool but it does seem to make its point...Something About Mary 18-29yrs 7.4, 30-44 7.0, 45+ 6.6, Male 7.3, Female 6.8Gosford Park	18-29yrs 7.4, 3-44 7.8, 45+ 8.0, Male 7.5, Female 8.0Quite noticeably as the audience gets older the score rises for Gosford Park and falls for Something About Mary. At my 36 years I must admit I enjoyed much more the delicate and restrained humour of the former to the in your face and (to me) often juvenile humour of Something About Mary.To support this age bias; for the Director's Chair showing in my local cinema I seemed to be one of the youngest in the packed theatre ... what you read into this is up to you!To support the male/female split It makes a change from the usual blood and violence films you take me to was the comment as we approached the cinema from my fiancée ... yes it was her choice, but I for one am really glad that she made that choice!Of course all the above just shows a trend and certainly doesn't mean you'll like or dislike it just because you fall into one specific bracket or another but maybe it'll help you to decide if this is your 'kind of movie'; I hope so.In summary the plot and ending lacked direction but this clever, subtle period piece needed neither to make it worth watching if you can keep down to the pace ...7/10  "},{"Title":"ambitious film that falls a little short of the mark","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's Britain between the wars, and a large group of aristocrats--and their servants--are gathering for a weekend shooting party at a magnificent country estate.  As the servants bustle downstairs, their masters go about their own business, which generally involves being as nasty to each other as they can possibly be. Intrigue abounds, both upstairs and downstairs,and the viewer soon understands that there is something very sinister just below the surface.There are outsiders here as well a film star, who is treated with condescension by the gentry, and adulation by the servants;  a Scottish valet who isn't what he seems to be;  and an American producer who is present to do research for a movie (one of the ironies of this film is that all his research is for the sake of a Charlie Chan movie--a series not noted for realism).Tensions continue to mount, until --sure enough--a particularly nasty member of this crowd gets murdered.  No one seems to care much, including the incompetent police inspector, who is much more interested in pouring the coffee properly than in good detective work.This is a beautiful, rich movie, filled with nuances and ironies that can't be grasped in just one viewing.  To be sure, it has its flaws.  There are so many characters that it is hard to remember who is who. And the dialogue is often very hard to understand (closed captioning would be a big help). Gosford Park's biggest drawback, though, is that, in spite of a couple of intense scenes, it fails to involve us emotionally. This is a film that delights the intellect, but leaves the heart unmoved.I never-the-less strongly recommend it. Some individual scenes are real gems.  One of my favorites  The spoiled countess, who, feeling a little chilly before breakfast, demands her fur stole (a simple sweater just isn't good enough).  Or the part when the film star is singing and the gentry are stifling yawns--but the servants are having a great time. Or...well, see the movie and choose your own favorite. "},{"Title":"Upstairs, Downstairs meets Rules of the Game","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is beautifully filmed and well acted, but it falls short of being a masterpiece...the script isn't as compelling as Upstairs, Downstairs and the images aren't as memorable as those in Jean Renoir's Rules of the Game.  Nonetheless, Robert Altman has put together an extremely strong cast for a movie in the Merchant-Ivory mold. "}{"Title":"Ran out of gas.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A wonderful start for what seemed to be a classic period piece. Lensing and lighting...and costuming were top notch.  Looked to have some very interesting characters, but in the end, there were too many balls in the air and the set up started to unravel.  The last act definitely lacked oomph!  "},{"Title":"An enchanted British film shot by the great American Director","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It so rare to see nowadays films that will not easily be forgotten and definitely this one is one of those.An excellent cast, giantly headed by Maggie Smith and Kristin Scott Thomas, drives us in this old manor house in the middle of the British country side with several characters the upper social class and the lower class. The first one are the owners of the house and the guests of a shooting party organised in Gosford Park. The lower class is represented by maids, cooks and pages. This clear split has reminded me a 1970th British TV-series. Two actions in parallel are described and one character, a false page, builds up a bridge between the two classes. He is in reality an actor who wants to learn about that world.   Nothing is missed, everything is there with a precise and maniacal description. Even a murder gives the leit motiv and the thrilling effect to dig out the personality of the characters. Robert Altman, the excellent director, has never disappointed but films as this one improve certainly his already famous career.Rating 7/10   "},{"Title":"A winner for Robert Altman","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Depending on whom you ask, legendary director Robert Altman is either a fool or a genius.  His fifty year career includes prominence in the early days of TV with his direction of dozens of hit series such as `Alfred Hitchcock Presents', `Maverick', and `Bonanza'.   His filmmaking credits include `M.A.S.H.' and `The Player', both critically acclaimed.  His mercurial style of filmmaking is probably a rebellion from the highly structured approach imposed upon him by early TV.  The direction of his recent films can only be described as chaotic, with a cacophony of actors speaking over one another, and moving hither and yon as the camera sweeps from one side of the room to the other attempting to home in on the dialogue of particular characters.  Altman himself admits that he doesn't even read the script and really isn't concerned with what the actors say, as long as things sound right to him when they come out of their mouths.  He encourages ad-libbing and the more disordered the scene, the better he generally likes it.  Often, this produces utter disasters, like `Dr. T and the Women' and `Gun'.  Sometimes it produces a gem like `Gosford Park'.As a murder mystery, Gosford Park is not all that special.  It is fairly predictable with obvious hints dropped at every turn as to who did it and why.  As is the case in most of Altman's recent films, it is difficult to make out a lot of the dialogue with the din on the soundstage of everyone talking at once.  However, what makes this film unique is the treatment of the human dynamic between the aristocracy and the servants.  While lampooning the wealthy by contrasting their behavior with the simple wisdom of commoners is nothing new, never has it been done with such depth and nuance.  Altman's flowing direction of simultaneous events is probably the only way this could have been accomplished so effectively.The all-star ensemble cast is superlative.  Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas, and Jeremy Northam all give fabulous performances upstairs, and Kelly Macdonald, Clive Owen, Helen Mirren, Emily Watson and Alan Bates are marvelous downstairs.  For film lovers who enjoy good acting, this film is paradise.Genius or fool?  Who knows, maybe both.  However for Robert Altman, this film is clearly a winner.  I rated it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Some suggestions for watching this gem","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  So many reviewers said, and so many people I talked to about this film, mentioned how hard it was to understand.  My suggestion  rent the DVD version and turn on subtitling.  That's what I did the second time around.  It made for a MUCH, MUCH more enjoyable film.  They DO speak a different language, them Brits.  I had a hard time understanding the guys in The Full Monty! Did folks complain about the dialect-understanding difficulties for that film?  I just don't remember.  But after turning on the subtitling, I actual was able to enjoy the class distinctions even more in Gosford Park. And the film is largely about that. This film is chock-full of wonderful performances and characterizations.  It is beautifully photographed, and visually captures the feeling of being in an English countryside manor for a hunt party.  Tally-ho!  And zoiks!  And the story eventual makes this film more than eye candy.   "},{"Title":"Refined","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Firstly I have to say, what the hell is wrong with the majority of the people who have commented on this film. Boring, rubbish, dull, this film is most certainly not. I have heard bitching about how hard it is to follow what is going on, that the storyline is rubbish, the dialog is rubbish, the acting is rubbish. Was I watching the same film? Apparently not!This film is slow I will happily admit, but whats the point of having a remotely speedy movie when all Altman is trying (and in my opinion succeeding) to do is to convey the atmosphere at the time. Do you ever wonder why old people moan about every one being in a hurry in this day and age? Its because compared to there time it is. As for the viewer not being able to follow whos who throughout the film. It doesnt matter, and for me is subtly the point. The majority of the people are out for themselves and dont mind who they screw over to get what they want, but at the same time hypocritically look down on everyone else. The only characters who you really start to follow and recognise are those who have, well character, and in this case this tends to be the servants due to the fact that they dont spend all their time doing one thing, looking out for themselves. When watching this movie you have to keep in mind that it is less about murder and more about the 1930's and the people in it. The murder only highlights what we already know, that no-ones cares about the deceased but only what it means for them, and the fact that the dead man was hated by so many simply highlights that he angered many by again,looking out for himself. Oh and to the person calling themselves Kanerazor. If you think that Memento (admittedly screwed over at the Oscars along with Tennenbaums) was wittier than this then you must have either been asleep or deaf and blind as Steven Fry's character is one of the most ineptly funny characters I have seen for a long time! "},{"Title":"Why this may be Altman's greatest film...and easily one of the best of 2001.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"   Let me start out by saying this is not a film for people that do not like or understand filming. This is not a normal murder mystery. In fact, its not even about the murder. Its about the characters! If you are used to normal popcorn flicks and know nothing nor care about huge ensemble pieces, directing, or characterization you probably will not appreciate this film for its powers. Save your money. It will probably bore you.  Robert Altman introduces a wide range of aristocrats and their servants and spends three-fourth of his film letting them show you their various personalities through their interactions with each other. And he's devilishly subtle about it leaving dialogue and visuals low-key when they should be. People who have already seen this film should make a special note to remember how each single character was practically introduced in some shape or form. There is almost not a person staying at Gosford Park that does not get their word in and does not add to the intrigue of the plot. The storyline is set with people who have motives to kill and subtle hints are given to the reasonings of the killer...but the killer remains to be known until the end and by then you don't mind the killer or his/her reasonings.   This is perhaps the best casted ensemble piece I have ever seen. Every person is their character. Every person is believable. Helen Mirren's performance is a near flawless example of an affective quiet role. Maggie Smith was perfectly casted as the snippy Aunt Constance. Kristen Scott Thomas plays the uber-bitch lady of the house to the t. The list goes on... I almost felt that AMPAS could have filled the Best Supporting Actress category with women from this film and been perfectly justified.  This is a new Altman classic that I hope is not ignored for years to come. A nine of ten in my eyes. "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece from the master of multiple layers.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With trademark meandering storytelling and attention to minute detail, Robert Altman presents us his latest oeuvre. We are in the English countryside, it is the year 1932, and guests are invited to join a hunting party. A very English pastime, at which the host is completely inept, half the guest are no better than him and the rest finds it either boring or distasteful. For the first two hours, thus, we are treated to the most intriguing social study, since we are given the gift of multiple characters of astonishing substance (considering that other directors cannot even develop their leads beyond the one-dimensional) and a double view from both the gentry upstairs, and (mostly, and more insightfully) the servants, downstairs. And just when we are content to enjoy no more than said social study, the simmering tensions quite unexpectedly do come to a head. It is then that we finally get the murder we remember from the trailer, at which point the film gains astonishing momentum. Not only do we learn how mid-20th Century rural Police work (or not), but all remaining story threads are resolved to perfection. This includes hints to stories that are just about to begin - which proves that the best kind of movie does not end with the credits, but continues in the minds of the audience. Stories are about people, you see.  "},{"Title":"Badly overrated and frankly boring","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How this film managed to get such excellent reviews is still a mystery to me. Yes, it features a host of distinguished British actors and a world-famous director. But this does not help the story to fly. After a promising start, the film stretches for over two hours without actually getting anywhere. There are holes in the plot and the murder is relegated to the last 20 minutes. Worst of all, there is no humour!!! One cannot help thinking this is a bad attempt by a foreign director to recreate something which is quintessential British (unless he wants to prove Americans cannot do murder-mystery stories set in England -- like the U.S. film director we see in this movie)   "},{"Title":"Wonderful comedy/who dunnit set in a English country house in 1930's England. A Robert Altman film. 4 And A Half Flys Out Of Five","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was rightly nominated for six Academy Awards and won one, for Best Original Screenplay. It isn't Hollywood glitz but its delightful ensemble acting and direction.The cast includes Alan Bates, Helen Mirren, Stephen Fry, Maggie Smith, Emily Watson, Michael Gambon, Richard E. Grant, Derek Jacobi, Jeremy Northern, and Kristen Scott Thomas. There are a couple of American ring ins too, Bob Balaban and Ryan Phillippe to round out a classic English cast.Director Robert Altman (Mash, The Player, Nashville, McCabe and Mrs Miller, Short Cuts, Kansas City and Pret a Porter, et al.), the master of large stellar casts, has conceived with Bob Balaban a masterful Agatha Christie who done it which at the same time profoundly satirises, with a good dose of gentle humour,  class snobbery in 1930's English county houses.The head of the household Sir William (Michael Gambon) has with his wife Lady Syliva invited guests to their country mansion for a shooting party. Constance (Maggie Smith) and Anthony (Tom Hollander) are desperate to court favour with the nasty Sir William because without his support they are destined for relative poverty.Morris Weissman (Bob Balaban) a brash American in England researching his next Charlie Chan film, has brought with him his valet Henry (Ryan Phillippe). Henry isn't averse to seducing anyone if it suits him. Downstairs we meet Helen Mirren as the head housekeeper Mrs Wilson and the head cook Mrs Croft played by Eileen Atkins. Then there's the wonderfully manipulative footman George (Richard E. Grant). Gosford Park mixes and matches this lot, and many more, with delightful dexterity.Inevitably a murder occurs. It has to! There's a missing knife and lingering views of poison bottles. Then a wonderfully inept policeman arrives (Stephen Fry) who's becomes yet another clever comment on just how silly and vain some of us humans become in the face of a class ridden and driven community like the one that exists in Gosford Park.Gosford Park isn't just a who dunnit by any stretch. It's far better than that. Gosford Park is a display of just how fine film making can become when a master film maker can play with a master cast.4 And A Half Altman Flys Out Of Five "},{"Title":"Interesting study, told with interweaving storylines and complicated relationships","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is clearly the work of a genius.  Altman has taken particular care to detail, accurately recreating a country house party of the 1930's.  However, what the director is obviously much more interested in is the inner workings of the house, how the relationships between the characters differ between appearance and reality.  The film is slightly deceiving in advertising itself as a murder mystery, as the main theme of the film is not murder or detective work, yet the different between the social classes, the 'upstairs' and the 'downstairs' party.  The films closing credits epitomise this by dividing the cast list into two, in the same way the characters would have been divided in their contemporary period.  The extent of Altman's genius is shown in his ability to interweave so many different storylines and relationships between the characters.  He has assembled an eclectic list of characters, each with their own quirks and personal interests, and then throws them 'Big Brother style' into a house, observing how they interact like a scientist testing rats.  The representation of the characters is also extremely clever, as the film doesn't generalise the upper classes in a derogatory role whilst presenting the lower classes in a more general light.  Instead, each character has their own strengths and weaknesses, making themselves completely individual to the rest of the house.This, however, is one of the films pitfalls as by the end of the film, the audience may not have figured out every character and may have made their own conclusions, which do not concur with the directors intention.  However, this remains to be a wholly fascinating study of class differences, and character relationships, in the 1930's. "}{"Title":"not as good as I had hoped","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A best picture nominee for this year's academy of arts and sciences awards was the last of the five viewed for this year.  I honestly was looking forward to this English romp having full respect for Robert Altman and his resume of work.This film started out as slow as a three wheeled Cart, dragging like a tilted wagon.  Nothing here at the beginning made you excited about what was to take place. I did relate having spent some time in the mansions that housed this type of set up.  The class interaction allowed for some very fresh class relationship.A great English farce that gave me a great sense of how 1932-class system needed to work.  But much of this relationship never worked for those who needed to be touched.The acting here was awesome, everyone preformed their acting task with complete control.  Some of the most memorable were Kelly McDonald and Helen Mireen (SAG winner).   But even with some great acting the plot was like runny eggs.I loved some aspects of this movie but overall it just didn't seem to invoke much interest.   The twists of this cinema were great but not enough to grip my fascination.Quite frankly it just wasn't my cup of tea.Three out of five "},{"Title":"Great cast of actors for a great movie","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman finally scores with this great movie not only about the upper and lower class, but also about human relations. Yes, it is a little bit slow, but when it ends you'll wish you had more time to watch those characters! Kristin Scott Thomas, Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren once again show why they are considered great actresses but the whole cast makes the movie one of the best reunion of actors. Forget the stars in Ocean's Eleven, Gosford Park's actors are the REAL best group! In fact, Altman seems to know that his whole movie depends on the characters and so he casted only the best (even the pitifull Ryan Phillip seems to be a real actor in this movie!). It's worth it - but remember that this is an Altman movie and not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Sly Yet Subtle.  Very Worthwhile.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a most unusual and complex film. Its all about the getting there, and then when it does get there the gotten only serves to compliment the getting. Yes, there is a        mystery, and yes it is solved, but this only further complicates the characters and their relationships to one another. The revelation of the mystery only affords a greater mystery. So, in all actuality, the ending is only the place where the movie ends and the credits begin. How Gosford Park is all this and still manages to be satisfying is, perhaps, the greatest mystery of all.The plot of Gosford Park is entirely to complex to be neatly tidied up here, besides anything less than a full script would be superficial. I will say, however, that it concerns a massive group of impossibly rich characters, invited to a          party circa November 1932. Nearly all of these are restricted to the upstairs (aristocrats) and downstairs (servants). The first half of the film would seem to show the differences between these, but then, ironically, someone is       ed and the film takes the opposite turn. Suddenly, each of these people are all just people, and the only thing dividing them is a set of stairs and musty ideals. Each group is, after all, made up of individuals put in their place solely by chance. In the end everyone has their own specific problems and concerns, that may or may not relate to their class, and are often either paralleled or mingled with the opposite class.Do these themes resolve the movie? Well, yes and no. In the end the        is irrelevant, and could have been substituted by any similar scandal or tragedy. It is the characters that matter. We never really find out just who everyone is, but that, the mystery left unsolved, may be the point of the movie. Gosford Park is at first all about surfaces, every character begins a caricature. However, gradually we realize that there is something never completely disclosed going on beneath the surface. Sure there are little revelations throughout, but all they really tell us is that each character is more than meets the eye. In an exact reversal of typical narrative, the characters start out simple and accessible, but end complex and mysterious. So their plights are never really resolved, they may still come away a little bit wiser for their visit.All of this is made rich by cunning direction, lush photography, and impossibly wonderful performances. That director Robert Altman (M*A*S*H, Nashville) manages to drag a brilliant performance out every every member of his whopping 23-character cast is, well, like I said... impossible. But then again Altman really doesn't seem to give a damn. He is one of the most talented directors of our age, and he puts that talent to good use here. He knows the tricks of his trade very well. He can make any character an         , a suspect, and all with the angle of his camera. And how he handles that cast...!Speaking of which, it would take entirely to much text to detail the performances of each main character, as there are so many of them. However, there are two female performances that stand out, and seem to be garnering special attention. Maggie Smith is a show-stealer. She is so wonderfully bitchy and disdainful in her role, really giddy to behold. She manages to teeter perfectly between being a part of her class, and absolutely contemptuous of it. Then, in the opposite light is Helen Mirren. A servant, her performance is composed of subtle glances which tell us just enough of her bitterness, cynicism, and ultimate love, without completely revealing her. She is ultimately very sad, and she suppresses and reveals that sadness in just the right way. Altman openly claimed his film to be greatly influenced by the classic French film, La Regle Du Jeu, a very similar study of social classes. Does this detract from the film's originality? Not really. Upstairs-Downstairs movies are really a genre all their own. Antiwar films, interracial love stories, teen angst dramas and other specific types of movies all may express very similar themes, but they can also be very unique. Gosford Park expresses the universal ideas of La Regle, but in a different manner. It lifts the themes and settings of the earlier film, and populates them with many different characters, and situations. The tone is different as well...In Gosford Park Altman takes a very sly, farcical approach to his material. When watching it I got the feeling that he was like a kid throwing rocks into a busy anthill. His        is his greatest rock, and one the ants spend a great deal of time figuring out how to approach. Should they swarm all over it, stand aside and laugh scornfully, hide away, or blame each other? Altman's ants all take a different approach. In the end there's just this rock sitting in the anthill, and they all leave. Besides, if anyone committed the        it was Altman himself.   "},{"Title":"Transports you to another time and place.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Washes over you and pulls you into another era much as Remains of the Day does.  Does what a good film should do--transport you out of the ordinary world to another time and place.  Depicts the boredom and smallness of the world of the rich in a way I've never seen before.  The lives of the servants seem so much richer and animated in comparison.  Cinematography is luminous, period details authentic. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film...but not at first","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an extraordinary film, but that's not what I thought after watching the promos on TV.  It appears to be a 30s high society drawing room farce w. nice period costumes, hints of naughty sex & such, and a mystery whodunit. Even while watching the film, I continued to feel this way.  But by the film's conclusion, I realized that Altman has created an extremely subtle & complex film filled w. lots of plot twists & turns that throw you completely off the scent.  He plays on all the cliches of the genre the murdered aristocrat, the suspect servants & aristocrats, a beautiful old English country house to make it appear that this is just another genre film.  This couldn't be farther fr. the truth.  Altman has composed a sly, corrosive commentary on the English class system in which he completely turns the genre on its head.  The aristocrats are totally secondary characters in this film.  The entire film is carried by the servants.  They are the main characters, they drive the plot & completely dominate the denouement.  At the conclusion, again reversing the convention, the murderer is revealed but the crime is not solved in a conventional sense.  Be very careful in noting the plot developments because you may not notice the subtle references which reveal the killer at the end.  If you don't follow the action closely, the solving of the murder might not even be apparent to you.Altman wants to tell us that the wealthy classes only think they're important.  He punctures their sense of self importance & tells us if we really want to see humanity, we must pay attention to the workers, the poor, struggling folk who make the world turn.Watch & enjoy!Richard "},{"Title":"Over-rated!!!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I feel the way Elaine from Seinfeld felt about The English Patient when I hear all the raves this STINKER is getting.  My girlfriend literally fell asleep during the film and I kept waiting for some semblance of humor....which never came.  I can't believe people actually liked this travesty.  If you like obscure and funny movies, go rent Ghost World instead of wasting your money on this film. "},{"Title":"What is the point?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I watched this movie I kept asking, what is the point? I do not care about any of the characters, it is obvious who killed who, who was sleeping with who, and what the final result would be. It seems like lately, movies have just outstanding casts, and perhaps a great director but the plot and purpose just lack so much. From these words, you probably think I didn't like the movie. It was fine, I enjoyed some moments and liked some characters in the film. Perhaps why I was so disappointed, is that this film is suppose to be one of the top films of the year. And frankly it lacked a lot.  "},{"Title":"a bit of a sows ear made from a silk purse...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With a who's who cast of fine British actors (Maggie Smith, Alan Bates, Helen Mirren et al), and Robert Altman at the helm, the portents seemed good. The presence of Emily Watson was also a major factor ('Breaking The Waves' -for me, one of the saddest, most beautiful and most brilliant pieces of cinema ever).I'd heard this was maybe a little above the usual English country house period drama fodder. Indeed, the start was impressively done, as you get sucked into the world as it was in the 1930's and the way the extended family suckle at the fat belly of Sir William McCordle (played by Michael Gambon). Upon his death, it's rather stultifying to witness the calmness, almost warm wave of apathy that seems to infuse most of the gathering. Unfortunately, this lack of emotion from the characters infected me as well.It's sometimes difficult with such a large cast simply remembering who is who and how they interrelate with each other. To overcome this, it helps if there is enough depth to encourage repeat viewings. Unfortunately, it takes so long for anything beyond character development and scene setting to occur, that repeat viewings are (for me anyway) unlikely. The volume of characters and their equality in terms of importance unfortunately renders the viewer's relationship with even the most interesting ones - such as Robert Parks (Clive Owen) and Mrs Wilson, The Housekeeper (Helen Mirren) - not necessarily intimate enough to generate any real feeling when their denouement comes.The absolute nadir of the movie is the atrocious Inspector Thompson (portrayed by Stephen Fry), such a ridiculous unbelievable caricature of an incompetent 1930's Detective that by his appearance he sucks out all seriousness and believability from the final third of the story. Handling unfingerprinted decanters? Ignoring clues found by enterprising Constables? You betcha. Thankfully the good points - the performances of Emily Watson, Maggie Smith and Richard E Grant, the articulation of the class differences and arrogance of the upper-classes - balance this somewhat. Unfortunately, for me, this was still a bit of a sows ear made from a silk purse. "},{"Title":"A lengthy ramble through the country house whodunnit genre","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why Robert Altman decided to make, in his own inimitable style, this whodunnit version of `Upstairs Downstairs' is a mystery. Perhaps he thought the anthropology of it all was interesting or just wanted to try out the genre. Anyway, he has produced a very English film about as far away from `Mash' or `Nashville' as you could get, although not terribly far removed from `Cookie's Fortune.' He has used a galaxy of English acting talent, (sometimes rather under-utilising it &#150; Charles Dance is almost completely wasted) to produce a rambling, crowded and moderately scintillating 1930s country house murder mystery. The plot itself is not too difficult to work out (Altman is no Agatha Christie) but it is a little difficult at times to follow all the by-play and even remember who everybody is &#150; there are at least 30 significant speaking roles. The original `Upstairs Downstairs' TV series (represented here by its co-creator, Eileen Atkins, in an acting role as Mrs Croft the Cook) took a fairly sanguine view of the master-domestic servant relationship. Altman is under no such illusions and his servants , both above and below stairs, are a thoroughly exploited lot, though many seem happy enough in their station. The head of the household, Sir William McCordle (Michael Gambon, in a fairly restrained performance) is not aristocracy, but a self-made millionaire who has married up - to the very elegant and younger Lady Sylvia (Kristen Scott-Thomas). He is a nasty sh*t and she is about as faithful as a tomcat, so there's plenty of scope for trouble. A late autumn shooting weekend for friends and family brings matters to a head, though it is not Lady Sylvia's insatiable sexual appetite that provides the trigger. There are lots of personal stories, if not too many real suspects; the chief police investigator (a sublimely incompetent Stephen Fry) gets nowhere, and the mystery is solved for us by a young lady's maid, just in case we couldn't work it out ourselves.The real interest here, as is often the case with Altman, is the characters and their social situation. In this society the nuances of social distinction are very fine indeed and breaches of the rules are sternly dealt with. Elsie the head housemaid (Emilie Watson) is bonking Sir William, a fact Lady Sylvia is aware of and which she tolerates. When, however, Elsie intervenes in defence of Sir William in an argument at the dinner table between Sir William and Lady Sylvia, a total breach of decorum for a servant, she is instantly dismissed. .The household is run with great efficiency by Mrs Wilson, the housekeeper, (Helen Mirren) though Jennings the butler (an addled Alan Bates) is nominally in charge, and despite the murder the breakfast trays continue. There is a parallel between this movie and James Cameron's `Titanic', a fascination with how the great obsolete machine, in this case a large country house, worked.The movie is rather overstuffed with characters, and I wondered whether the Ivor Novello character was really necessary. Jeremy Northam does a very good portrayal of the great English (actually Welsh) silent film matinee idol (who also composed `Keep the Home Fires Burning' and various other crowd-pleasers) and does justice to several Novello songs. His participation in this story is entirely fictional and doesn't add much to it, though the different reaction of the servants and their masters to his crooning at the drawing room piano is interesting. I suppose his friend Morris Weissman, the putative  producer of Charlie Chan movies, provided a good opportunity to send up American crassness and self-importance with his endless trans-Atlantic phone calls, but it's not terribly original stuff. Ryan Phillippe is good as his `valet' &#150; a rotten little self-seeker from Central Casting with the Fox studio label still on his striped trousers which he drops whenever he gets a chance. The acting honours go to Maggie Smith as William's sister Constance, Queen of the put-down, who is nevertheless convinced she doesn't have a snobbish bone in her body. She has many of the best lines and uses them to deadly effect.It's an amazing piece from a 76 year old, but I noticed the audience at the preview I attended was pretty ancient (ie even older than me)., I guess Altman will expire about the same time his fans do, but he seems to have a picture or two in him yet. "},{"Title":"A bore and a chore","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I haven't read any other user comments on this film, but in case no one has pointed it out, this is an almost total ripoff of the 1939 French film Rules of the Game.  I haven't heard any critics or any of the moviegoing public mention Rules, nor do I see the creative team from Rules listed among the writers of Gosford Park.  It's 90% Rules and 10% Clue.This film has, without a doubt, the longest stream of scenes before the first plot point is reached than any I've ever seen.  I defy anyone to name a film where said plot point happens later than AN HOUR AND FIFTEEN MINUTES!  In case you don't know, 99% of films have their first plot point between 25 and 30 minutes.  And 99.99% of all films ever made have had it before 40 minutes.  To not have it within these time frames is not right.  It's uncomfortable.  It doesn't feel right.  It gets boring.  One is supposed to have an idea of what the film they are watching is about before half of it is over.There are too many characters in this film, and that's the first time I've said that about an Altman film, and I've seen most of 'em.  The difference here is that they're all in the same place and parts of the same story, unlike Short Cuts or Nashville.  It's just too much.  It's impossible for me to give a damn about any of these characters (except the cute girl from Trainspotting), and therefore the whole story under these circumstances.  It's just a mess, plain and simple.As for Rules of the Game, many consider it among the all time greats ever made, so if you liked Gosford Park, you should certainly give it a look.  It also takes place in a large mansion in a secluded place where a group of pretentions upper class European jerks bring their servants along for a weekend of pretention and game hunting.  Painful truths are revealed, murder takes place, and equal time is spent from the perspectives of both the upper and lower classes.As for me, I lump both films into my The Big Chill class of films.  Everyone, even the most ardent film fan, has a type of film they can't stand, and this is mine, so take my thoughts with a grain of salt.  But, man.  If I have to sit through one more film where a group of pretentious ******* get together for a weekend in a large, secluded place so they can make painful but necessary revelations or find out long lost truths before they return to their empty lives, I'm going to blow my brians out. "}{"Title":"Great film with a great actors!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Normally, I can't stand the whole 1930's stiff-upper-lip era, let alone films about it, but Gosford Park really is an exception. It's very funny yet dramatic and with a fabulous plot. But the guy who stole the show for me was Ryan Phillipe. There are a few spoilers here but only ickle ones. He's gorgeous, he's funny and I don't know how he managed to keep up that Scottish accent. I would never have known if I didn't already know that he's american! It just made me laugh so much how randy he was! Knocking on one woman's door one minute, arranging a nighttime encounter for later, then going straight round to anothers! Sorry if I'm going on a bit but I think he was the best part of the whole movie and I'm going to marry him! "},{"Title":"Well worth the effort to watch","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park takes place exclusively in a lavish country estate in England and revolves around the weekend gathering of wealthy aristocrats, and their servants, for the owner's arranged shooting party during the 1930's.Following a sort of Upstairs Downstairs format the film examines equally the various lives, relationships and secrets of the wealthy owners who live in luxury and privilege above and their servants who live in service beneath them.Whilst the movie's tagline (Tea at four. Dinner at eight. Murder at midnight) would lead you to believe that this was going to be a standard whodunnit story, you would be some way off the mark.  It is rather a richly layered drama which requires the audience to keep up at a fairly quick pace with everything that is going on within it.The vast majority of characters enjoy plenty of screentime and those actors on show who do not appear as often make the most of what time they have (see Richard E Grant's mischievous manservant and Stephen Fry's inept Inspector). A few of the standout performances come from Maggie Smith, Kelly McDonald, Helen Mirren.In fact there are so many characters to discover in this movie that it can, at times, become a little confusing, but that would be missing the point because this is an ensemble piece.  A who's who of British cinema is on display here (no small achievement) - Maggie Smith, Michael Gambon, Helen Mirren, Derek Jacobi, Kirsten Scott Thomas, Alan Bates, Emily Watson, Clive Owen, Richard E Grant, Stephen Fry, Jeremy Northam, Charles Dance to name but a few.On the downside the irritating and over-rated Ryan Philippe makes an unwelcome appearance in the film although, on the other hand, perhaps this is an example of perfect casting because his character is not intended to be likeable or convincing.Whilst there may be those who feel that the film takes its time starting, drags in places, is overlong and that not enough really happens, they will all generally have to gone to see the wrong movie. Simply put this is one of those rare gems of moviemaking which firmly, and unashamedly, focuses on the characters and allows the plot to flow from them as opposed to the reverse. Despite the many serious and complex elements of the movie though humour is never far away and there were some genuinely funny moments in this movie - made all the more amusing by the tragi-drama of the film.Gosford Park does require thought and patience from the viewer but it is a great movie.  Fans and non-fans of Robert Altman alike will not be disappointed by this movie because he delivers one of the best films of the year and is, without doubt, worthy of many of the oscar nominations it has received. "},{"Title":"Excellent depiction of aristocratic life but thin story.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is an echo of the English television series Upstairs Downstairs and not half as good. People go to the movies to be exhilarated. I came away with very little.  To be sure there were some magnificent performances by Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren.  Indeed the acting throughout was superb, but after 20 minutes I was thoroughly dazed sorting out the characters, and asking myself When are they going to get on with the story? Well, the simple answer is...there isn't much of a story.  Anyone believing it is going to be a murder thriller will be sadly disappointed.  With an extremely large cast the film becomes confusing with so many fleeting glances of characters popping in and out of rooms, peering around endless corridors and doorways, snippets of conversational gossip....it feels very much as if you were there with all the noisy background of chatter emanating from people who are living very empty lives.  Slowly you begin to put the pieces together and you comprehend what is going on.  Despite a murder near midnight, nobody seems terribly upset as they adjust to a police investigation which in itself seems very casual.  You get the feeling in the end that it won't be long before another outdoor shooting party will be arranged when the company can get together again and have a nice gossip and the servants below can spy on the goings-on upstairs.  "},{"Title":"A underutilised cast, pointless plot, and tiresome cliche.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am always suspicious of a movie that utilises an ensemble cast. I dont go to watch a cast, I go to see a story told. True, the better the cast, the better the telling, in theory. But when the story is so flimsy, cliche ridden and bereft of originality, then the ensemble becomes just another bunch of misdirected actors. And this ensemble can't disguise the fact that Gosford Park is built on a weak, confusing, and frequently dreary script. It seems that Altman saw Howards End, thought I can do that, and then proceeded to prove he couldn't. There is a difference between style and craft. To be fair, the movie is beautifully crafted. But it is devoid of passion, plot and personalities.  Instead, it is crammed with dead-ends, scenes with no purpose or meaning, stereotyped British aristocracy and their stereotyped lackeys in a plot that meanders, stumbles and drifts to a silly crime with an obvious perpetrator.  The bumbling policemen, the besmirched maid, the alcoholic butler and the prim dowager all make an appearance. Sure, the metaphoric statement is recognisable, but given the multitude of similar movies, television shows and plays that all used the same vehicle for their social commentary, its hard to miss. If the identical movie was made by an unknown director, with an unknown cast, it would be declared a turkey. Dont let big names fool ya!!! This thing will put you to sleep better than Temazapam.  "},{"Title":"Engage brain please.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a thinking persons film.No think, no enjoy film.The relationships between characters aren't laid out on a plate for you you've got to concentrate and work it out for yourself.  So a big sorry to all those people who like good guys to wear white (and speak with american accents) and bad guys to wear black (and speak with foreign accents) this film is not for you, you're too stupid and/or lazy to understand it.As for there being no plot...well, the bodycount is low and there aren't any gunfights, but still waters run deep, and there are strong currents in the depths if you're prepared to use your brain to find them.SPOILER COMING UPFor example, Emily Watson's maid makes a fatal error and is fired.  Big wow, you say, but maybe you don't realise what this means to her.  Let me ask you one question. Where is she going to sleep that night?  And another, how's she going to get another job?  Okay, she's apparently getting a reference, but one 'careless' word suggesting she isn't suitable, and that's it as regards another job in service.  Women didn't really work then, so no other jobs to do.  Where does she get money to live on from?  No social security.  She's finished.  That's it.  All over.ANOTHER SPOILER COMING UPThe butler's big secret?  Okay, he went to jail for not fighting in WW1. Doesn't seem like much maybe, but in its time, it's the equivalent of feeling glad about September 11th.  If his employers or co-workers find out, that's it again  ostracised.This film is packed with layer upon layer of similar stuff.  Maybe it's a bit too real for everyone's taste, but then real people don't worry about finding the Philospher's Stone (good but overlong TV commercial that Harry Potter was) or similar...but they do worry about the issues covered in this film  jobs, love, peer pressure, social standing, maintaining appearances, unwanted pregnancies, keeping up with the neighbours, bitching about others etc etc etc.Watch it again and, this time, engage brain. "},{"Title":"Whoofmany dun it?","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good climax and twist at the end, but I thought this was not as enjoyable as the stuff on A&E because there were too many suspects/characters (all those servants plus the society types). Too much, too involved, hard to get people's names.  I would also have liked the murder to occur sooner (I timed it, but I won't tell how far into the movie it occurred.)  I'm more into the plot/mystery itself, not overdone British gossip, personal intrigues, etc.  But still OK, and people who are into the genre will enjoy this film a lot.         "},{"Title":"Altman scores unlikely hit with great script and ensemble cast.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can an American director known for his iconoclastic improvisations find success and happiness in an English period piece murder mystery?Yes, Virginia, it works.Set in the 1930's, over a &#145;shooting' weekend at an English estate, Altman's characteristic layered, overlapping dialogue creates a richly textured Upstairs/Downstairs sociology lesson coupled with an Agatha Christie Murder Mystery. Maybe it's because he's an American (as am I), but I don't think I've ever seen a more enjoyable or lucid exposition of the British class system. The look of the film is faded and decaying, mirroring the eroding class system it portrays. Juxtaposed to the muted colors are vibrant performances of the ensemble cast. I can't wait for it to come out on DVD so I can hear all the pieces of dialog I missed. If there is one frustration I have in some Altman films, it's hearing all dialog. Make sure you see this movie in a movie house with a good sound system!As a murder mystery, Altman is sometimes heavy-handed with clues. Unlike some, I found the English Twit inspector (with his long-suffering competent assistant) funny, and at the same time, a believable product of a world where the class system and meritocracy did not see eye to eye.This is Altman's best film in many years, and one of his best ever. It's great to see him going strong in his 70's.  "},{"Title":"Fluff in the Country","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone who loves an evening of British intrigue on Masterpiece Theater will have fun at Gosford Park.  Just be prepared to be clueless as to who anyone is or their relationship to anyone else.  I fail to see any greatness in the direction of Mr. Altman when he can't handle simple matter like introducing characters.  The actors in this film can, for the most part, do these characters in their sleep.  I sincerely doubt they needed much directing.  The great Maggie Smith is, as always, the delight of the piece.  The one jarring note is the character of the police inspector - far too much the clown to be believed.  On the whole though, a pleasant jaunt.  Just sit back and enjoy your visit. "},{"Title":"Effortlessly impressive","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Now in his late 70s, director Robert Altman shows us he can still churn out a very fine movie with seeming effortlessness.  A delightful Agatha-Christie type period piece set in a country manor - a sort of dinner at eight, murder at twelve type formula. Altman's characteristic long panning shots and dialogue that drifts in and out relax us into feeling like one of the most pampered flies-on-the-wall in all existence. Add to that a collection of some of the finest actors, every one of them radiating brilliant performances, and the actual murder whodunnit is of almost secondary interest to the detailed goings on of everyday life amongst the gentry and servants. Emily Watson, Helen Mirren, Alan Bates, Derek Jacobi, Stephen Fry, Kelly McDonald, Maggie Smith. The list goes on - you couldn't squeeze much more top notch talent into a single movie. The perhaps rather sad thing is that the subject matter is so insubstantial that its reach is so much further than its grasp. Lord of the Rings will live on when class acts like this will be revered but only watched by cinefiles. "},{"Title":"Excellent 'period' film, superb acting and a good ending twist to the story","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lovers of the period (1930s) will enjoy this film with its precise attention to detail of costume and life 'above' and 'below stairs'. Photography is top-class but I was slightly disappointed in the part played by Stephen Fry (Inspector). Not a very convincing portrait of the character I am sad to say.  Also there one or two utterances of the 'f' word. Where and when they were used in the story and especially by the character involved would not, in my opinion, have happened. In other words out of contxt and unnecessary.  An example of what I mean this The same word was used a great deal in 'Bridget Jones Diary' - in this case it was used by characters that most certainly would  have used in everyday life.  The same does not apply to 'Gosford Park'  Otherwise, apart from this small gripe, a most enjoyable cinematic experience. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Time for Mature Audiences","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For three older women at a matinee performance with a theater almost full of mature people, we all had a wonderful time.  This is a film in the grand tradition of witty, nuanced, intricate stories of the time of the film, the 1930's.  We had no trouble understanding the dialog and laughed our heads off in some places.The point of view of the film is though the eyes of the servants and what a view they have of these dolts who dress beautifully, but are mostly rotten to the core.The opening scene shows the poison bottles, and they keep cropping up so we know that we will have dead body at some point, but that is not the point of the story.  It is just an incident among many at this country weekend.All the actors have a scene or two to shine but they all keep themselves in check so it comes off as a wonderful ensemble piece.  Have to give credit to Altman for pulling it off once again.The wonderful look of the film is perfect; the clothes, jewelry, the rooms upstairs and downstairs, and the great cars - it is all a joy to behold.  Definitely of the three nominated films I have seen, this one and A Beautiful Mind are both worthy.  Thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Decent as literature, but needs a lot more work as drama","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was a bit lifeless for me. Attempt was to combine Shooting Party with an Upstairs, Downstairs situation, plus a few others (Cold Comfort Farm, Agatha Christie's you-name-it) thrown in for self-parody's sake. The intent I assume was contrast, but the result is a grayish blur -- visually as well as figuratively. Same problem I had with Black Hawk Down (or Watership Down, with its cast of lookalike British bunnies for that matter) so many characters I couldn't keep track. G Park is a more quality piece of writing than I make it sound, but the intent was apparently to have conflict develop gradually until it busts loose near end, and by then I don't care much -- shortening the running time 15 or 20 minutes would have kept me a little more interested, and not at the expense of anything important. Characters are consistently disagreeable anyway. Sameness is not a preferred goal when the project is potentially hackneyed from its very conception, no matter how loudly the credit for this idea is touted by Messrs Altman and Balaban. That sameness is not just between this film and the ones it's imitating, but within the film's own structure from beginning to end.I did not absolutely hate Gosford Park. It may in fact grow on people after a second viewing, when it hits Bravo on basic cable or when the video can be rented for a few bucks, and one's investment in the expectation involved in going to the movies is no longer a factor.  "},{"Title":"A refreshing change of pace","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see Gosford Park with some expectations - it had just got Oscar nominations for Best Director and Best Picture, as well as Best Screenplay and 2 Best Supporting Actresses. Was I happy after it? Well, yes I was.The story is essentially simple - a group of upper class lords and ladies attending a gathering in a British manor, in the 1930s, along with their valets and hand-maidens. Throw them all together and mix and see what happens (a murder). One of the film's greatest strengths, and weaknesses, is the huge cast. It's a strength in that the acting - from all - is spot on and there will be someone for everyone. It's a weakness in that it's initially confusing trying to place who everyone is. Even when you do get to grasp with most of the characters, the little touches that are invested in each means that there's never enough time to focus on your favourite. For myself this was easily the wonderfully caustic Countess of Trentham, for which Maggie Smith gained a deserved Oscar nod. But she's not the only one on top form - Richard E.Grant excel's as the cynical footman, Helen Mirren is in fine (and Oscar nominated) form as the cold head of the household, and Kelly McDonald (playing Trentham's maid) shines as her character tries desperately to cope in the huge bustling labyrinth of the house.The script mostly sparkles. It relies on the interplay of characters - much in the manner of Altman's Short Cuts - and the social divisions. Classic upstairs/downstairs scenario, as has been mentioned elsewhere. There's some great lines from Trentham's witty observations, to Freddie Nisbett's it's nobody comment when he sees one of the servants. The murder is, in many ways, irrelevant since it's very obvious who will be murdered. Even the murderer isn't all that surprising - but since this movie is about characters, it doesn't matter. The movie looks well, and particular mention must go to the actual design of the house itself, where the layout is perfectly designed to suit the bustle of the characters without ever seeming too empty, or too cramped (except when the occasion demands it). The films look is somewhat dull, in terms of lighting, but Altman does show enough skill that he's able to firmly rove between characters without the camera ever seeming to interfere, or be the central focus of the action - we're left, as we're meant to be, as an observer to the events and lives. I'm not sure if I would give this the Best Picture award, as I feel there are stronger contenders. Similarly Altman isn't as strong directing here as he has been previously, and there's better work produced by other directors this year. Nevertheless the script is excellent, the acting well above par, and the movie is a lovely escape from the brain-dead action movies we're subjected to now-days. A well deserved 7.8/10.  "},{"Title":"Behind the Party","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a great deal.  As someone who has enjoyed both Carter's Grove in Colonial Williambsurg, VA and the Builtmore Estate in Ashville, NC it was very exciting to see such places in full operation.  As a program manager I was fascinated by how the servants worked and accomplished their duties.  The plot was not very interesting to me but the scenery and the view of how thing worked were fascinating. "},{"Title":"A good variation of Clue from start to finish","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman himself summed it up best. This movie would be impossible to do in America. His reason? No American casting agent would ever allow his actor to remain in the backround for most of the picture. Case in point, Alan Bates. Could you imagine, say, Gene Hackman in the role? I didn't think so. His agent just wouldn't allow it. I won't give a synopsis of the plot, there are more than enough reviews that will you that. A weekend party is thrown, someone is murdered, and a detective shows up to try to solve the mystery. While the movie occasionally seems to drag, it's well worth it's two and a half hour length. It give us, unlike other murder mysteries, time to really get to know the victim. As to the cast, all are terrific. All the actors and actresses fit their roles to the letter (even Phillipe, which surprised me). Some standouts are Helen Mirren as one of the lead servants, and Kristen Scott-Thomas as the lady of the house. I always enjoy Charles Dance, and it was nice to see him in the credits. I found myself dubbing his character, Colonel Mustard! Clive Owen puts plenty of Charm into his servant role, and I wouldn't be shocked to see him take over the role of James Bond when Brosnan decides to opt out. And it was no surprise to me that Maggie Smith scored an oscar nomination. She steals the show as one of the socialites. Also providing a lot of comic relief was Stephen Fry's Inspector Tom...... But my favorite actor, and character, in the movie was Richard E. Grant's George. he had several funny moments. Plus, he got to spill coffee in Ryan Phillipe's lap. A good portion of why I went to the movie was because Grant was in it. I found myself perking up whenever his character was on screen.Altman delivers once again, and I hope he continues to put out hits.*****/***** 10/10 "},{"Title":"well done, but flawed","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'd have to agree with many of the comments on both sides. I thought it was well done, some great commentary on the class system (even among the servants of the house during their supper!) but it was longer than necessary and somewhat confusing as far as the characters and sub-plots go.Was anyone aside from me confused about what was happening with that young lady -- I have no idea who she was -- and that guy who kept cornering her to talk? Both characters were underwritten to the point of being ciphers. Plus, I kept confusing him with the the creep-husband. And where did that second young guy come from at the film's end, walking down the staircase?? If we had seen him earlier, he certainly had no impact upon the plot.Another distraction -- and this was probably just me -- was actor-spotting. Look! Emily Watson! Alan Bates! Michael Gambon! Helen Mirren! OK, that beautiful actress who plays Louisa looks so familiar, what have I seen her in? (Haunted and Cracker -- thank you very much IMDb!) And, it took me nearly half the film to finally put names to Charles Dance and Jeremy Northam, despite having seen their names in the opening credits.Plus points Beautifully filmed; well-acted (not a bad performance in the bunch. Stephen Fry was hilarious); some wonderfully comic moments, nuanced commentary on class differences.Negatives Overly long; lack punch at the end; too many subplots that didn't amount to anything; murder mystery aspect too weak and too long in coming -- and too simplistic for us mystery fans, who foresaw the answer. Oh yeah, and the dialogue was too difficult to hear!!!!All in all, I'd have to see it again, but probably not until it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see Gosford park without knowing much about who was in it or what it was about. All I knew was that it was a period drama.I think this film is wonderful, the way in which it shows us the downstairs of the house is so different from other period dramas, it gives us a real insight to how much work actully went into running a country house. I have to congratulate whoever was resposible for casting the policeman Well done, fitted the part perfectly! The star-packed cast just adds to its brillance, its a must see for everyone, period drama lover or not it would be a shame to miss it. I advise anyone who has not seen this film to go and see it now, while it is still in the cinemas.  "},{"Title":"A good movie, but not Oscar material","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was amusing, but forgettable. I suspect it garnered an Oscar nomination as a nod to Robert Altman's long history. That said, I recommend it as an extended episode of Masterpiece Theatre. I do like Maggie Smith's performance as the poor relation. "},{"Title":"Very British !","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very British, a mix of Agatha Christie and British humour directed by a brilliant director. The British countryside is well showed as it really is; i.e. green, empty and wet. In another word miserable. Hopefully most of the movie is set within a large manor with all the characters staying warm by sitting next to the fire place. Indeed, don't expect car chase nor fancy action scenes. It is more a movie of the mind rather than of the 'streets'. It may not be attractive to the average British spectator - unless this one is over 50 or has passed the age to vandalise whatever is nearest to his seat (which nowadays may bring him around 50 anyway). Indeed, this very old-fashioned British style movie is set in a time when the UK had still some colonies, at a time when British were hypocrites and had lot of pride. Unfortunately, it does not reflect today's situation except in the hypocrisy and pride. Maybe it is nice to have this movie and to remind British spectators that they live in a small country that has no colony left and that is not an empire anymore. Welcome back to earth ! This small thing out of the way the movie is watchable and almost enjoyable. With characters each having a secret to hide, and each secret being revealed up to the last minute. Definitely a must see for a nice evening. "},{"Title":"Undeserving of your attention","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a good movie - for 30 minutes.  And these moments do not make up a compact 30 minute segment.  No, they are a few moments here and there (only about 5 of which last for more than a minute) spread out throughout the entire film.  The remaining 2 hours and 10 minutes are waste, where we get snippets of several characters who are slightly interacting together, developing aborted plots and character semi-portraits.  About a third of these characters are speaking in soft voices with thick common accents and low vocalization, making their snippets of dialogue even more pointless to the untrained ear.  They might as well have included static to replace those moments, because there's nothing interesting to look at either (regardless of the costume and set design Oscar nominations, which are merely for the ability to recreate the look of an English mansion falling into decadence in the 1930s, not because any of it is eye candy; filler nominations, if you ask me).Despite the crowding of characters and Altman's alleged legendary abilities to weave many stories and characters together and explore them fully, there's only about 6 to 8 characters that we really get to know about (and for half of those, most of their information is revealed in the last-minute exposition at the conclusion of the film).  And unfortunately, only three characters are regularly entertaining a rich socialite grouch (played by Maggie Smith), a nobleman who dreams of being an entertainer yet is met with flops, and a police inspector's smarter assistant.  Unfortunately, the latter two are left to a side.  Thus, it's up to Maggie Smith and her character (Constance) to carry the movie for us.  After a while, you share her grouchiness towards the fellow socialites.  Smith's nomination is deserved, although it is odd that she's in the supporting actress category, when her name is top billed in the credits, not to mention the movie opens and closes with her.  I guess the lead actress is considered to be Emily Watson, who plays Constance's servant, Elsie, a character who serves as a vehicle to connect the other many characters, although Elsie's emotional gamut is limited, and some of her decisions are inexplicable.  Helen Mirren is also top billed, although she's in the background during the entire picture, except for the last 10 minutes, when at last she gets a chance to show off her marvelous acting talents and tells us something about her character.Supposedly, Gosford Park is a murder mystery spoof.  Actually, that plot line does not develop until 1 hour and 20 minutes into the film.  In other words, there's practically an entire standard movie before the advertised plot develops.  The rest is a look at the different interaction between social groups in old Britain.  If you've seen ANY other movie about the British elite and their servants, then you've seen and know everything this movie has to offer on that topic.  And it isn't an entertaining take on the division (don't expect any humorous Tom Jones-like direction here).  The screenplay offers some amusing lines here and there, but most of it is bickering, or random lines spouted by obnoxious characters, like Bob Balaban's gay filmmaker of Charlie Chan flicks - geez, can't Altman make a movie without lamely attacking Hollywood's elite?  The Player is 10 years old, and wasn't that great to start with.  To round out Gosford's problems, Robert Altman directs this in a limp, standard, hardly caring manner, with even some amateurish moments (e.g. overly dramatic music bursts out when a servant is informed that her hard work of the previous night was meaningless).  He does have the occasional interesting shot, but those are quite few.  His Oscar nomination just shows the influence of Hollywood politics on these awards (let's give him an Oscar before he kicks the bucket - Altman is 77 years old and Oscarless to this date).  Heck, the only deserving nominations are for the actresses.  It's troublesome that the wittiest writing of the movie is featured in the its poster, yet it has a best original screenplay nod.The best thing I can say is hey, at least it isn't H.E.A.L.T.H.!  But it sure does not deserve any of your attention. "}{"Title":"Fascinating, well worth seeing, but slightly flawed.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  People seem to be comparing this to Agatha Christie novels. They are wrong, unless that is lazy shorthand for prewar who-dun-its.It has much more of the social conscience of Dorothy L Sayers, or, perhaps more accurately Margery Allingham.The camera work is stunning, and a lot less intrusive than in Pret a Porter. The soundscape takes a little getting used to - realising one is listening to someone off camera to one's right whilst looking at the people to one's left is disorientating for a while, particularly in a mystery-thriller when one doesn't want to miss any 'clues'.I went in a party of four only two of us picked up who had committed the murder AFTER it had (supposedly) been explained - you do have to concentrate hard.Great acting, hardly a foot or a syllable put wrong for my money Emily Watson, Derek Jacobi (who steals scenes by NOT doing anything, perfectly in character), Eileen Atkins (weirdly underrated in the UK, much more respected on Broadway)and Richard E. Grant shade the acting honours by a whisker, but it's an ensemble piece, and I'm sure all the cast would say (in public at least) that naming favourites is heinous.All in all, a very good film, but not a Friday night after a meal with a few friends thing. You do have to concentrate. "},{"Title":"a minor gripe, a major yay!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"   So skimming through the comments made on this film, I would have to agree with some of the more negative reactions. I did think figuring out the connections between the characters was difficult - this was not necessarily a bad thing, indeed it adds to the realism - people do not explain who they are related to and who they are having affairs with in real life. I did think the cursory way the murder was treated was irritating as well. Then I had a bit of a think about it... Portents of death and doom are all over this movie. They go shooting for birds, the bloody mary smashes to the floor leaving red stains all over the floor, the upstairs characters discuss the loss of the empire and the devastating effects of the war whilst the downstairs lot mull over orphanages, factory work and dead babies. In this atmosphere, what is one more dead body? Going to watch this film two days after Princess Margaret's death gave it an extra resonance in a way. The Royal Family is so moribund and irrelevant, her death is hardly a surprise it feels like she (or at least what she represents) has been dead for years already. The film gestures towards the new fluidity in social relations and affluence that will come, but only after the devastation of World War 2. Pain and death is a necessary precursor to a more hopeful future, represented by the Americans and the two maids, Mary and Elsie (played brilliantly by Emily Watson and Kelly McDonald  - last seen advertising deodorant!)It is Mary, the young naive girl who solves the mystery where male bombast and confidence fails. It is the American, Morris, representative of glamour, who rescues Elsie and takes her to a new life. America is forward looking, fluid, modern, where Britain is hidebound and ridiculous. The maid wakes the Ryan Philippe character. 'Can't you tell I'm not like those a***holes?' he asks. 'You can't play for both teams' she replies. The point is now you can, through films and acting and pretence. You can be anyone you like in the dream factory of Hollywood. Is it going to far to say this film is predicting the importance of America and its film culture in post war Europe? Maybe. But did you notice the little plot detail - the American is a vegetarian. I'm a meat eater myself, but what more symbolism could there be of someone dedicated to life over death, humanity over selfishness?     "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really can't believe a lot of the negative comment's I've read on this site about this film. It was well acted (Stephen Fry apart),had an excellent script and was visually interesting. I agree that the action was slow moving but at least this gave time for the characters to develop.If you want to see action I suggest you go and watch that piece of nasty jingoistic, racist rubbish Black Hawk Down and leave the rest of us to watch something that at least engages the brain.Well deserving of it's Oscar nominations for both film and it's leading actors I enjoyed this film more than any other I've seen this year. Sorry if the accents are a problem but people actually talk like that in England (and amazingly don't sound like Dick Van Dyke) "},{"Title":"Superb! But not really a murder-mystery.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great movie.  But it's not everybody's cup of tea.  The tag line Tea at four. Dinner at eight. Murder at midnight. might make some think they are in for a fun murder-mystery. But this isn't really a who-dun-it. It's more like a backstage pass to the Clue mansion.If this movie doesn't do well, it will be because people went in expecting Clue and found something different.The upstairs-downstairs dynamic was intriguing. The whole setup made me evaluate the way we humans conduct our affairs. This film's not just for fun; it's a little bit of a thinking movie, too. But it's by no means dull; I laughed a lot.The characters are good. It can be a little hard to keep everyone straight at first (make sure you can hear it well; I saw it in a theater with a whacked out sound system and it was very frustrating). But once you settle into in, the characters are very rewarding. The actors all did a good job. Lots of fresh faces and many known ones.Kelly Macdonald, as Mary the maid we spent so much time with, was very sweet without being saccharine. And, hello Clive Owen as Parks the valet; he rocked. He was friendly, handsome, wise, and he played barely-reigned-in without being manic.It was interesting (although frustrating) to see the excellent Jeremy Northam in a smaller roll. I think this was the first time I've ever liked Derek Jacobi in a movie. Helen Mirren as the housekeeper was a steady hand. Richard E. Grant as George the first footman was had several stingingly funny moments. "},{"Title":"I hate to yawn, but...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How could this movie go wrong? A fantastic cast; a great director; a wonderful period setting; 'upstairs downstairs' with a richer cast.. So what happened? I admit I am a fan of crime fiction, and I did not go along just to watch a whodunnit, but I did feel that, apart from the well-drawn class distinctions clearly on show, we might have made just a little bit more of the fact that the poor host got murdered? Was this all part of a grand joke that I obviously failed to get? Is it an in-joke that chaps getting murdered in a country house is so commonplace that the action will just skirt round the minor point of a dead body? I suppose that will explain why the hapless Stephen Fry struggles to get his name out. Thankfully, due to the crime's low profile, we don't see too much of Mr Fry. All in all, inspite of the undeniable great acting, especially Kelly Macdonald and Maggie Smith, I was disappointed. I mean, why bother with a murder if you're not going to 'delve' a bit, rather than just tell us 'Oh, by the way, sowinso did it, with the thingy, because of whathisname.' Yes, the main point WAS the class thing, but it shouldn't have stopped us having a good old mystery to get our teeth into, whilst we marvel at Maggie not bothering to wear the shirt which Kelly has stayed up half the night to wash and dry for her! Yes, I did yawn. I tried to suppress it, mind you, but that was only because I didn't want to yawn in the presence of my superiors. Oh, alright then. I admit it. I yawned twice. Good, but overrated. "},{"Title":"Sheer entertainment from Altman and company, nothing less, nothing more.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're a fan of PBS Masterpiece Theatre, Gosford Park is another delightful gâteau to consume and enjoy. English upstairs and downstairs storyline with reasonable murder and intrigue. It's rather a fun romp, murder or no murder, under Robert Altman's direction. Reminds me how Woody Allen has been optimizing ensemble casts in his annual outings. Hannah and her sisters 1986 was superb; Manhattan Murder Mystery 1993 could be a good parallel here. Just watching the ensemble cast enjoying themselves in an Altman or Allen film is sporting enough. With Altman films, mischief and misbehaving are regular ingredients. While Allen has his New Yorker condiments sprinkled throughout matching his Woody sensibilities.Gosford Park has practically an all British cast other than young Ryan Phillippe, and Bob Balaban (whose shared idea with Altman became the literal script) as the Americans in the midst. It's stylistic in set and costume, language and manners. A full 137 mins. of watching the interactions between the stellar cast  upstairs with Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott Thomas, and Camilla Rutherford (the McCordle), Maggie Smith (the Countess), Charles Dance and Geraldine Somerville (the Stockbridge), James Wilby and Claudie Blakly (the Nesbitt), Jeremy Northam, Bob Balaban and others, including inspector Stephen Fry. The downstairs, more colorful in tone, is led by Alan Bates and Helen Mirren, with Eileen Atkins, Derek Jacobi, Richard E. Grant, Emily Watson, Sophie Thompson, guest attendants Clive Owen, Kelly MacDonald, and the 'out of place' Phillippe. Call it a farce, mockery, or mere play (in every sense of the word) - if you dislike not the English ways, you'd enjoy this fine. If you're looking for deep meaning, exciting drama, a tear-jerker (and don't care for spending time with Altman), there are other choices plentiful Monster's Ball (d Marc Foster); In the Bedroom (d Todd Field); Lantana (d Ray Lawrence); A Beautiful Mind (d Ron Howard); I Am Sam (d Jessie Nelson); or a swash-buckling revival of Alexandre Dumas adventure Count of Monte Cristo, The (d Kevin Reynolds).   "},{"Title":"The Thin Line","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is sometimes a thin line between deft complexity and utter confusion, between very deliberate pacing and relentless tedium, between the refined and the stodgy, and between the subtle and the arcane.  Quite simply, some people will see this film as a masterwork and others will see it as a complete mess.I think the trick to appreciating this movie is to realize that every element of the film in some way serves the fundamental theme The line between Upstairs and Downstairs may seem very thin, especially behind closed doors, yet the social structure ultimately endures.  If this structure should be compromised, it is almost invariably the servant class that will suffer.The murder mystery storyline merely serves as a backdrop against which the social relationships are exposed.  The plot is so secondary that the film is admittedly quite boring to watch despite the biting social commentary. Consider yourself warned. "},{"Title":"The Butler did it!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With the assistance of a collaboration with Bob Balaban, an exceptional screenplay by Julian Fellowes, a cast of Britain's finest, and charmingly dreary sets and cinematography, Robert Altman returns to prime form in Gosford Park.  Against the backdrop of a meeting of aristocrats, their army of servants, and a spying but strangely unobservant movie producer and his `man' for a weekend of daily hunting and nightly gathering and the inevitable murder which results from such activities at the movies, Gosford Park explores the relationship between the classes in 1930's Britain. The main plot faithfully follows the English `whodunit' paradigm---a weekend at an isolated ancient family manse, an assembly of friends and relatives all of whom are relatively unfriendly, unexpected guests of uncertain pedigree, back-stair shadows and whispers, a moment when the likely suspects have all vanished, a murder, the appearance of a detective, a passing comment recognized as critical by a great mind, and, finally, a solution to the mystery. But, by using customary formula, Altman is able to explore subplots and variations on familiar themes.  For example, one of the movie's most marked departures from its model is the importance of the servants.  Rarely, in 1930's murder mysteries, does the butler actually do anything other than wait on his master.  Instead, these characters have traditionally formed part of the moving scenery; even at Gosford Park the upstairs guests treat them as near automatons.  In Gosford Park, however, the servants also have secrets, emotions, and intelligence to hide and to reveal.Increasing the main cast by two or three fold to include the servants, however, poses certain problems.  Some of the minor characters are introduced and almost immediately and completely forgotten.  Conversely, Altman spends considerable time creating rich stories for many characters through a slow series of hints and whispers.  As a result, the plot movement lags and stalls.  At the beginning it was almost tedious to follow who was who, who did what to whom and who belonged in which household.  The purpose, however, of much of the early garbled gossip and banter is to mirror the history of the real mystery and is not critical to understanding the film's resolution. There are, of course, many secrets at Gosford Park, and it is through many of these secrets that Altman explores the class structure and the state of that institution in pre-WWII Britain.  Secret babies, averted pregnancies, cash-flow shortages, and WWI dodgers speak to the crumbling of the rigid class system and the rise of middle-class opportunity.  Not every character's motivations and secrets, however, are explained by the movie's end.  This lack of revelation, however, gives the movie a feeling that there is more to tell, that if it could, the stories would continue outside the confines of the script.  Altman uses this tactic often, but it works well in Gosford Park perhaps because Altman convinces the audience that it is a good idea to leave the structure of Gosford Park. Altman also uses the subplots as studies in contrasts and comparisons. The boredom and coldness of the wealthy is contrasted with the industry and capacity for feeling of the servants.  Conversely, both the upstairs and the downstairs, on the whole, enjoy a juicy piece of gossip or a midnight tryst. Each group is also a gaggle of consummate snobs --- note both groups' disdain for Mabel's (Claudie Blakley) cheap green dress and the seating arrangements at the indoor servants' table.  Lady Sylvia (Kristin Scott Thomas) and Constance, Countess Trentham (Maggie Smith) both direct nasty quips toward the suave actor Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northram), but they are too full of hubris to realize that they and their way of life are about to become a Hollywood caper comedy at the hands of Morris Weisman (Balaban).Moreover, each major character seems to have at least one double.  There are two characters whose wealth is rooted in the industrial age, Sir William (Michael Gambon) who is fawned after by the upstairs visitors because of his factory made fortune and Mabel who is dismissed by all because her family's factory did not produce enough cash.  At least two people desire money from Sir William; while Freddy (James Wilby) is a crafty amateur extortionist, Lt. Meredith (Tom Hollander) is a jam-loving man-child of open desperation. Several servants have changed names and identities, sets of sisters abound, and would-be mothers skulk in every corner.  There are even three sleuths (but only one great detective). The ease with which all the actors in Gosford Park handle their intricate roles is superb.  Kelly MacDonald as Constance's underestimated maid is stunning and intelligent as she takes in every secret and revelation with a disingenuous eye.  Clive Owen's Mr. Parks is tortured, sexy and righteous and even at the end, we are uncertain if he is a hero or villain.  As the would-be valet Ryan Phillipe is a comic eros---so certain of his beauty; so horrible about knowing his place, so oblivious to convention.  Stephen Frye, stepping out of the butler's role is hilarious (laughter cannot be suppressed when he tells the constable that they have people to sweep up evidence).  Balaban is perfectly ridiculous as producer who is on the phone conversing about his English countryside whodunit so much that he misses all the action including the murder!  Kristin Scott Thomas and Maggie Smith do not disappoint playing cold witty bitches.  Emily Watson is enthralling as the practical yet wishful Elsie---she can get even a jaded audience to gasp when she speaks out of hand.  Northram and Blackley are, respectively, suave and humble, and they have surprisingly good chemistry together in the drawing room scene.  The rest of the cast also deserves individual praise for their skill and willingness to take on small parts with such zest.  In this category, Derek Jacobi is the most notable; he barely has three lines.Overall, Gosford Park is worth the time and attention.  It is sophisticated, engaging, illuminating and, simply, entertaining.  "},{"Title":"The Butler did it!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With the assistance of a collaboration with Bob Balaban, an exceptional screenplay by Julian Fellowes, a cast of Britain's finest, and charmingly dreary sets and cinematography, Robert Altman returns to prime form in Gosford Park.  Against the backdrop of a meeting of aristocrats, their army of servants, and a spying but strangely unobservant movie producer and his `man' for a weekend of daily hunting and nightly gathering and the inevitable murder which results from such activities at the movies, Gosford Park explores the relationship between the classes in 1930's Britain. The main plot faithfully follows the English `whodunit' paradigm---a weekend at an isolated ancient family manse, an assembly of friends and relatives all of whom are relatively unfriendly, unexpected guests of uncertain pedigree, back-stair shadows and whispers, a moment when the likely suspects have all vanished, a murder, the appearance of a detective, a passing comment recognized as critical by a great mind, and, finally, a solution to the mystery. But, by using customary formula, Altman is able to explore subplots and variations on familiar themes.  For example, one of the movie's most marked departures from its model is the importance of the servants.  Rarely, in 1930's murder mysteries, does the butler actually do anything other than wait on his master.  Instead, these characters have traditionally formed part of the moving scenery; even at Gosford Park the upstairs guests treat them as near automatons.  In Gosford Park, however, the servants also have secrets, emotions, and intelligence to hide and to reveal.Increasing the main cast by two or three fold to include the servants, however, poses certain problems.  Some of the minor characters are introduced and almost immediately and completely forgotten.  Conversely, Altman spends considerable time creating rich stories for many characters through a slow series of hints and whispers.  As a result, the plot movement lags and stalls.  At the beginning it was almost tedious to follow who was who, who did what to whom and who belonged in which household.  The purpose, however, of much of the early garbled gossip and banter is to mirror the history of the real mystery and is not critical to understanding the film's resolution. There are, of course, many secrets at Gosford Park, and it is through many of these secrets that Altman explores the class structure and the state of that institution in pre-WWII Britain.  Secret babies, averted pregnancies, cash-flow shortages, and WWI dodgers speak to the crumbling of the rigid class system and the rise of middle-class opportunity.  Not every character's motivations and secrets, however, are explained by the movie's end.  This lack of revelation, however, gives the movie a feeling that there is more to tell, that if it could, the stories would continue outside the confines of the script.  Altman uses this tactic often, but it works well in Gosford Park perhaps because Altman convinces the audience that it is a good idea to leave the structure of Gosford Park. Altman also uses the subplots as studies in contrasts and comparisons.  The boredom and coldness of the wealthy is contrasted with the industry and capacity for feeling of the servants.  Conversely, both the upstairs and the downstairs, on the whole, enjoy a juicy piece of gossip or a midnight tryst. Each group is also a gaggle of consummate snobs --- note both groups' disdain for Mabel's (Claudie Blakley) cheap green dress and the seating arrangements at the indoor servants' table.  Lady Sylvia (Kristin Scott Thomas) and Constance, Countess Trentham (Maggie Smith) both direct nasty quips toward the suave actor Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northram), but they are too full of hubris to realize that they and their way of life are about to become a Hollywood caper comedy at the hands of Morris Weisman (Balaban).Moreover, each major character seems to have at least one double.  There are two characters whose wealth is rooted in the industrial age, Sir William (Michael Gambon) who is fawned after by the upstairs visitors because of his factory made fortune and Mabel who is dismissed by all because her family's factory did not produce enough cash.  At least two people desire money from Sir William; while Freddy (James Wilby) is a crafty amateur extortionist, Lt. Meredith (Tom Hollander) is a jam-loving man-child of open desperation. Several servants have changed names and identities, sets of sisters abound, and would-be mothers skulk in every corner.  There are even three sleuths (but only one great detective). The ease with which all the actors in Gosford Park handle their intricate roles is superb.  Kelly MacDonald as Constance's underestimated maid is stunning and intelligent as she takes in every secret and revelation with a disingenuous eye.  Clive Owen's Mr. Parks is tortured, sexy and righteous and even at the end, we are uncertain if he is a hero or villain.  As the would-be valet Ryan Phillipe is a comic eros---so certain of his beauty; so horrible about knowing his place, so oblivious to convention.  Stephen Frye, stepping out of the butler's role is hilarious (laughter cannot be suppressed when he tells the constable that they have people to sweep up evidence).  Balaban is perfectly ridiculous as producer who is on the phone conversing about his English countryside whodunit so much that he misses all the action including the murder!  Kristin Scott Thomas and Maggie Smith do not disappoint playing cold witty bitches.  Emily Watson is enthralling as the practical yet wishful Elsie---she can get even a jaded audience to gasp when she speaks out of hand.  Northram and Blackley are, respectively, suave and humble, and they have surprisingly good chemistry together in the drawing room scene.  The rest of the cast also deserves individual praise for their skill and willingness to take on small parts with such zest.  In this category, Derek Jacobi is the most notable; he barely has three lines.Overall, Gosford Park is worth the time and attention.  It is sophisticated, engaging, illuminating and, simply, entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie that I will see again.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It started out a bit slow, and sometimes the people are hard to understand because of the accents, but it was fun to watch, interesting, and very entertaining. It reminded me a lot of the Upstairs Downstairs t.v. series, which I'm sure it was supposed to, but a bit more racey. I definitely want to see it again to catch what I missed the first time.  The acting was wonderful too, with some familiar faces and some I've never seen before.  Maggie Smith was great! "}{"Title":"Old Genres, New Life","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Odd that there should be so many negative comments about this film on iMDB when the average vote is so high. Not surprising, however, that most of the disgruntled viewers should have had no real idea what to expect from a Robert Altman film when they went into the cinema. This was never going to be a straightforward Agatha Christie-type murder mystery, in fact it went some way to subverting 1930s country-house whodunnit conventions, not least, as someone else pointed out, by making the detective a clueless duffer and thereby avoiding the climactic 'we shall all convene in the drawing room at eight o'clock when I will unmask the murderer' denouement.At the same time, I disagree with the notion that the murder mystery element of the film was almost an afterthought, tied up as it was with everything else the movie was trying to convey. (To say more would warrant a spoiler warning.) Those who worked it out before the truth came explicitly to light and criticized the film as a result are obviously better at sussing out detective fiction that me (and I admit I've always been lousy at it); to them I would simply say that you can understand a murder plot without beginning to get your head around a subtle study of the intricacies of the British class structure. And to fail to appreciate as large a gathering of British screen and theatre actors working at the height of their powers as you're ever likely to see again is a very sad thing indeed.9/10. One of Altman's best.      "},{"Title":"Altman's knowing camera highlights 1930's class obsessions.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As I sat down to view Gosford Park with Becky and Gina the thought crossed my mind, `Could the film live up to its hype? Five minutes in and Becky leant over and gushed in my left ear `This is wonderful!' I nodded my agreement. The film is deliciously wicked as it allows the viewer to observe the idiosyncrasies of people who are unaware they process any. The plot is not overly complex and is certainly not the strength of this movie. The structure of this film is in its interplay of characters and the contrast between the vital world below stairs and the bored existence of the upper classes. The introduction of an American into this world provides an alien perspective though which the audience can identify.  	 One of the complexities of the film is in remembering who's who, especially upstairs. `Which one's Lord Stockton?' whispered Gina in my right ear. And a discussion on the journey home revealed that Becky believed Sylvia's sister was her daughter, which would have given her a very odd relationship with Bill!  My advice is to pay attention to those casual introductions you will be tested later!I also wished that I had known more about the Charlie Chan movies that the American supposedly produced. Research afterwards revealed that there were a series of thirties B movies in which a Chinese detective competently solved crimes. Thus Stephen Fry's bumbling detective is an antithesis of this fictional character. Perhaps there is an element of truth in that a modern audience, used to watching TV detectives gather evidence and solve crimes, are more knowledgeable about the methods of deduction than a nineteen-thirties, English, police inspector would have been. As Stephen Fry's performance has been highlighted in several reviews as the weakest link perhaps I am looking to justify it. However as the audience I was with definitely found it amusing perhaps that is sufficient justification for its presence.One of the advice bytes a writer is always reading is &#145;show don't tell'. Early in the movie Elsie (Emily Watson) warns Mary (Kelly MacDonald) of &#145;George's wandering hands'. However throughout the movie there is no indication of this vice from George (Richard E Grant). Although nicotine addiction and a willingness not to waste good wine are displayed! In a film of outstanding performances Richard's was one of my favourites, with his malicious remarks and permanent expression of disdain there was a definite edge to his presence in any scene. Another character I enjoyed watching was Mabel (Claudie Blakley), the wife of the obnoxious Nesbit (James Wilby) who had only been invited to make up numbers. She is the female outsider in this upper class habitat and is easy to overlook as unimportant. No character in this tableau is unimportant. The most memorable dialogue is in the expert hands of Maggie Smith who delivers it with such a wonderful, naivety that she reminded me of my 7 year old, who seems to specialise in outrageous comments issued in total innocence. My impression, from the recent Altman Omnibus, was that the director wanted to remove that &#145;air of knowing' which permeates most period dramas. In the finished product I was aware of his success in this endeavour. The film is a glimpse into a moment of people's lives. Everyone is busy with their own lives, and, particularly with the staff, we are conscious of their individuality. There are reflections on the past, but there is a stronger awareness of the present. The future has not happened yet. The death of the master may force the sale of the house, there may be a trial, a film may be made and a war may be coming, but in the meantime the silver has to be polished, and meals cooked and served.Finally, before you all think this hierarchical society is part of British history. I recently viewed a documentary on Windsor Castle where a servant was measuring the distances between place settings, for a banquet, exactly as George had in Gosford Park. A dying breed yes, but please do not make the mistake of thinking it extinct yet.  "},{"Title":"It was all that","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished reading the summary of the critics' reviews at www.metacritics.com.  Gosford Park has a 95 score, highest of all the movies in current release (higher than the excellent movies Amelie, In the Bedroom, and A Beautiful Mind).  There were two negative reviews one by the reviewer for TV Guide, and one from Time Magazine.  That should tell you something about the tastes of people who didn't like this movie, and if your tastes are similar, you should avoid it and go see Slackers.  For myself, I loved all 137 minutes of this film and relish repeating it. I was astonished to see all the negative reviews of Gosford Park here at IMDB.  But, then again, the fact that Gosford Park is a great movie does not mean that you will like it.  It's interesting that the complaints are self-contradictory -- some moaning that they figured out the mystery right away, others that they couldn't follow all the characters.As to the latter, this is clearly a movie that should be seen more than once.  For that reason, I agree with one of the negative reviews don't even bother renting it!  And I won't; as soon as the DVD is released, I'll buy my copy. "},{"Title":"It has everything","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Casting, performance, location, clever one-liners in the script, wonderful attention to detail from start to finish .....this movie has everything.Everyone in the film contributes something worthwhile so it's unfair to single anyone out. Big part or bit part, 'above stairs' or 'below',  they're all great.  For a British audience 'Gosford Park' represents the best in film entertainment. I'm not sure how it will go down outside the UK though.A 'must-see' movie if ever there was one.  "},{"Title":"somewhere in the middle","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is neither as great as some people say, nor as boring as its detractors claim. It is a well directed, well acted film about class distinctions. I've heard it called a cross between Rules of the Game and Ten Little Indians. I think the mystery is probably more Murder on the Orient Express, and it fails pretty badly in this regard. It does however fare better in the Rules of the Game area, no small feat and something that in itself makes the film a success. For people who complained the film was too slow- this is a complaint often heard from people who usually are describing themselves. "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nope, I'm sorry, this movie did not do it for me.  Call me crazy, but I'm one who goes to the movies to be entertained...and this just was not entertainment.  Based on reviews I had read, and the trailers I had seen, this looked like it would be a good film.  I heard a lot about it being nominated for different awards and such, and decided to go see it for myself.  Big mistake.  Never before have I seen a more boring movie that just dragged on and on.  I'm usually so into the whole movie experience that I'll stay until the end of the credits...but for this movie, I couldn't get out of that theater quick enough.  Now I know lots of people have different tastes in movies, but I just cannot fathom how someone could walk away from this movie feeling entertained and satisfied.  I kept waiting for something to happen, but nope, nothing really did.  Murder...ho, hum...yep, this movie can even make that boring.  I hear many people calling this movie 'witty' but I can't help but think this is merely a cover-up for 'boring.'  Please, I'm begging you, if you haven't seen this movie, don't...or at least just rent it instead...(fast forwarding will come in very handy).  I just don't want anyone else to have to endure such torture.  But then again, if you're into that whole British-comedy-but not really funny-genre...Hey, this just might be right for you! "},{"Title":"Overrated period, overrated piece","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman's film Gosford Park is indicative of the period it portrays overrated, cliched, repetitive, and unexciting. There is so little new to this film that one half-seriously wonders if plagarism lawyers are working feverishly at his studio to protect this so-called Oscar-worthy performance.This film teaches us that rich people are sluts and scoundrels obsessed with their petty squabbles (we knew that already). It entertains us by giving us almost two hours of set up, 10 minutes of rising action and then with 10 minutes left a climax. The tagline tea at 4...murder by midnight is right...It does seem like it takes 8 hours for the climax to get there.There are many who claim that this film is artistic and that Altman is a genius for interweaving so many storylines into the piece. I however contend that no storyteller ever becomes great by confusing his audience, by intentionally adding in more characters than he knows what to do with, by underdeveloping the characters to such a point that they only reinforce how one-dimensional and cliched they really are, by adding scene after scene to show the same thing, and by slowing the pace to the point that more happens in the theater itself than the film in the course of the showing. Yes, some great works of art do confuse the masses, but that doesn't mean that all films that confuse the masses are great.This film in essence is like the sentence Murder, sex, at, rich, clothes, servants, dogs, jokes, stupid Americans---There's just too much detail and no real point to it. If you must see this film sit in the front of the theater and face back toward the projector...that view is surely more interesting than the film behind you.  "},{"Title":"oops","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Plain and simple....don't bother even renting it.  I admit I liked the period piece and the nuances involved.  I liked seeing the divisions between house servants and the nobility.  But I did not like being left hanging around at the end.  The murder mystery was too mysterious.  I went to this movie thinking, Hey, it has Maggie Smith, and looks pretty funny on the trailers I've seen.  About 15 minutes into the film I found myself wondering why I was there.  I think I must be expecting too much of films these days. "},{"Title":"Delicious","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From the first credits to the final scene, Gosford Park is a gem. What a pleasure to watch superb actors in a beautiful setting, with characterizations that are somehow unique and familiar at once.Who knows how Altman does it, but he has assembled a dazzling cast, some content to create very minor characters with style and wit. The story is absorbing, but in the end, it's the interaction of the characters that makes this movie so enjoyable. It's a rare occasion when my husband and I enjoy a movie equally, but we came out of this one in perfect agreement.  "},{"Title":"One of Altman's better movies","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of a number of fine *homages* to Renoir's transcendental La Regle du Jeu, Gosford Park enables Robert Altman to do what he does best - juggle several stories and numerous characters.  Other examples of this genre are Last Summer in the Hamptons and the much misunderstood Scenes from the Class Struggle in Beverly Hills.Sensational casting makes the production gel like solid aspic - Kristin Scott Thomas and Alan Bates are particularly brilliant, but Maggie Smith also raises the acting to some starry heights.  Downs are rare - Stephen Fry seeming to be inspired by Jacques Tati is bad characterisation rather than bad acting.Overall, however, the main heavy-handedness is in the over-emphasis on the callous disregard of the masters for their servants. Yes, this is one of the main themes of the film, no, it is not necessary to underscore it at every turn.After the clumsiness of Dr T and the Women, this would be a good time for Altman to retire on a high...  "}{"Title":"Style and elegance","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As expected, Gosford Park is an expertly executed web of quirky characters, British class mannerisms, and witty dialogue.  Oh yeah, and there's a whole pot of motives boiling over even before the centerpiece crime is committed.  Complaints?  I never found the dialogue indecipherable, though a repeat veiwing would likely reveal more humor and more plot details.  But even when the exact speech is lost among the mumbles, the tone is dead on and the story never stumbles.  If for nothing else, this film is worth seeing for Altman's masterful orchestrated direction.     "},{"Title":"How a Movie Should be Made!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Gosford Park is a perfect example of how a movie could and should be made.  By Hollywood standards, the studio that made this picture did not have to mortgage Planet Earth to get it produced.  In addition, this film did not sink to the lowest common denominators with bathroom humor, nor did it rely on spectacular special effects for it to be a great movie.  Robert Altman's direction, which deserves much credit for this brilliant film, keeps us interested as the storyline moves along.  Though the cast is full of many characters, we can easily identify with those characters.  The characters in this film are distinctive from one another, which is one of the signs of a great film.   Once again, Maggie Smith, as the Countess of Trentham, gives her usual brilliant performance.  She stands head-and-shoulders above the rest of the cast, which is the highest compliment since I was pleased with ALL the performances.  Kristin Scott Thomas gives one of her best performances as the perfect 'snob'.  If she is overlooked by her peers, it would be a shame, because she was incredibly believable.  I usually do not take notice of the writing unless William Goldman is the screenwriter, but I have so much respect for actor Julian Fellowes for writing the film's screenplay. It is his first major motion picture success as a screenwriter, and what a success it is!  Gosford Park is intelligent and witty.  A good portion of movies today are not intelligent - or the writing tries to dumb-us-down to grade school levels.  Gosford Park credits the audience for being intelligent enough to understand the intellectual plot, witticisms and one-liners.  I have added Gosford Park to my long list of favorite films.  "},{"Title":"Wow, was that a waste of time!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I'm as big a fan of stuffy British movies, actors and accents as the next guy, but theres only so much I can take.  Really, the movie tried its best to be intelligent, but failed miserably.  Throughout the movie, it tries to entice you with the hint of a murder mystery.  Unfortuntely, that does not even happen till well past the middle.  The entire first hour is all dinner, lunch, and then setting up for the next dinner and lunch. Seriously!  You could have removed Ryan Phillipes character entirely, and it wouldnt have mattered at all.  If you like a movie about snobby people in tuxedos having dinner and lunch, then go watch this movie.  if you like a movie about ugly people having sex and bastard children, then go watch this movie.  Otherwise, if you want to see a good movie, go watch black hawk down. "},{"Title":"I hugged myself with joy at this directorial gem","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found it a giddy delight to see scenes so skillfully realized, acting so seamless, so much information delivered to the eye that I took joy as one would from a magnificent gem or flower. There were faults, namely a story line that was sometimes too submerged and the unfortunate weakness of Stephen Fry as the Inspector. I like Fry usually, but in this company he stood out as the only inauthentic one, the one who seemed to be playing with his part instead of living it.  "},{"Title":"A straight line.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very odd piece of cinema.  It is a straight line all the way through with no highs and no lows.  It constantly drains the liquid between the upper and lower classes of society in 1932.  In England, a group of dignitaries get together for a couple of days and bring their servants with them.  The servants interact among themselves and the upper class people socialize among their peers.  There is a murder and a resolution but the way they are pulled off is with very little emotion, impact or high inventiveness.  Director Robert Altman does an excellent job with an average screenplay by Julian Fellowes.  Maggie Smith, Helen Mirren and Clive Owen are the stand outs and the tone of the movie is vintage Altman with a little bit of James Ivory's flavour thrown in for good measure.  Not a triumph and not a failure.  Just a stilted piece of cinema that looks more like a vacuum with the power switch off rather than one on high power to draw you in. "},{"Title":"Some powerful moments and strong performances, but much ado about nothing","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Vivid and potentially haunting recreation of a bygone era is undermined by frequent indecipherable dialogue, impossible-to-follow story lines, and the tendency of those stories you can pick up on to be fairly predictable and familiar.  The mystery is especially lame, and the character of the inspector seems to have required no more than ten seconds' thought on the part of its creators.  The cast, of course, is impressive -- Emily Watson and Helen Mirren are particularly good -- but one cannot escape the sense that most of them are wasted here.  American critics, alas, are easily seduced by British accents.  There is less here than meets the eye. "},{"Title":"Sterling Performances and Expert Direction.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park is a gem of a film. Robert Altman's star has yet to fade in the heavens.This film is pure Altman gold. Its a little bit murder Mystery,Little bit drawing room comedy and a pince BBC melodrama. The performances were near perfect. special standouts being Sir Michael Gambon's grumpy lord of the manor,Alan Bates' enigmatic head butler,Jeremy Northram's witty and suaver Ivor Novello and Emily Watson's sarcastic maid. Special attention must be given to Eileen Atkins,Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren for their intricately play characterizations and the surprise performance from the usually weak Ryan Phillippe. Only the greaT Derek Jacobi seems under used in the film. I would have liked to have seen more of him. The sound track is lovely and haunting,especially the wonderful Novello song's sung by Northram. The atmosphere is perfect showing the distinct separation of the classes by the mere design in the different sections of the estate. As with most Altman films there is not a strong plot,the film instead offers a glimpse into the lives the serving class and those they serve.My vote 9/10. "},{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I like Robert Altman, and I like this type of movie, but I was really disappointed in Gosford Park. I suppose my expectations were of something more wild and wicked. Except for the wonderful Maggie Smith, I found the cast so serious and stern, not really very funny or unique, nor did I find the story (what I could follow of it) particularly engaging. I think because I did not like the cast, I really didn't care about the story. Certainly they were fine actors, but they just weren't much fun.Many people obviously enjoyed this movie, but if you are expecting Nashville in an English country manor, or a real Agathie Christie type satire, this isn't it.  "},{"Title":"Not Classy Enough For Me!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Director Robert Altman's `Gosford Park ` is being called by many critics as one of the best films of the year.  But in my opinion, `Gosford Park' is melting in the park.  And I do not know how long it took to make it, but I hope director altman never has that recipe again.  Ok! Sorry Donna!  `Gosford Park' is an upstairs/downstairs tale set in a British countryside mansion.  The film focuses on the social elite british snobbery upstairs and the unfulfilled gossipy servants downstairs.  At the same time, there is a murder mystery involved in all this chaos.  Director Altman did do a formidable job in serving us a well-paced direction.  However, what I thought should have been maid better was the unsettling screenplay. As you might also be, I found myself a bit lost in `Gosford Park'. *** Average  "},{"Title":"The Truly Unpleasant Lord McCordle","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What if you had a murder and nobody cared?So many people, so much happening and only 137 minutes to deal with all of it.Perfect Servant -- this phrase come up late in the film and it would seem to be a badge of honour. And this is a near perfect movie.Imagine `Upstairs, Downstairs' with just a touch of &#145;Monty Python' and a little Agatha Christie thrown into the mix and you will come close to what this film is all about.There are so many characters it is near impossible to single any one of them out -- but some deserve mention above the rest.Maggie Smith (Constance, Countess of Trentham), Derek Jacobi (Probert Sir William's Valet), and most especially Kelly McDonald as Constance's Maid all turn in stellar performances in a film in which it is difficult to single out any one actor.Maggie Smith is the stereotypical landed gentry -- she has no idea that she truly believes that she is superior to `the working class.'  She even says that she 'doesn't have a snobbish bone in her body.'  And I am sure that she believes that -- it simply is not true.Derek Jocobi looks great -- better than ever.  He is an enourmously talented actor and can portray every character from servants to emperors and do it without flaw.The key to the entire plot lies with the character that Kelly McDonald (Mary Macreachran Constance's Maid) plays...  She is wise beyond her outward appearance and more worldly than even her own mistress would suspect.  A truly fine performance by a gifted actress.  I want to see more of her.Stephen Fry is the hint of 'Monty Python' as the police detective that can't even get his name out without interruption.  The entire case hinges upon him and we all know that he is not really up to the job.The music was splendid; evoking the period the film was set in and enhancing every scene.  Above all else, this is a fun film -- to be taken lightly and enjoyed. Make an attempt to be totally English and sit back with a glass of sherry in front of a roaring fire and enjoy.     "}{"Title":"Meticulous encapsulation of Upstairs/Downstairs","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park unfolds very slowly, scattering clues, motives, animosities, passions, and ill manners right and left for anyone to pick up on. Although some of the dialogue was difficult to understand, I found that when I didn't get it, I got something else in the scene that I might have missed. This movie requires all your attention and is not for the person who wants action and mayhem in their mysteries. "},{"Title":"A bit overrated","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I looked forward to this film, but left somewhat disappointed.  In fact, if it hadn't been for Maggie Smith, I would have left early.  The film is basically unintelligible. I kept hearing others in the theater whisper to one another, What did they say?  We can all latch on to English accents after awhile (Lock Stock and Two Barrels, Snatch, etc.), but when the director purposely has his actors mumble, it gets annoying.  I'm sure the plot makes sense if you see the film a few times with a friend and together you parse the action, but I've seen this genre done better on BBC television productions.Altman can still direct with style and nuance, however.  The craft can be appreciated by any cinema buff. "},{"Title":"what a treat","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  wow, that was so great.  Now a days movies seem to very often sacrifice good dialogue and high quality acting for brash sound effects and overly rated special effects.  But Gosford park has none of these, placed in a setting where the script and the actor's portrayals are the only thing the movie has to stand on it still manages to maintain an excellent pace and an entertaining story line.  Well acted my Maggie Smith and Alan Bates, Gosford Park was a real treat! "},{"Title":"Altman does a great version of a Merchant/Ivory like movie.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love Altman movies.  I've loved his movies since the 70's and even waited patiently throught the crap he did in the 80's to see the great stuff of the 90's.  It seems that most people that really love movies hold one of two positions on Altman.  They love him or hate him.  I don't mind two hours of little to no plot as long as I have good actors to watch and this movie has them.  If you are an Altman fan or if you are willing to wait while the plot comes slowly to the front, then go see this movie now.  If you don't like Altman films with their large and confusing casts and want the action up front and moving along all of the time, then don't go to see this movie.Altman's movies are epic in the sense that there is a large scope to the story and an interesting tangent doesn't have to detract from the overall story.  The story that is told includes more than the bare bones of the story to be told.  The full story could be told in just a paragraph or two. But brevity would destroy the story.  The story is characters and their relationships.I see one or two movies a week at the theater and I have noticed in the last few months that the movies are getting better and that more people are going to see them.  When I went to Gosford Park the theater was FULL!  All of the seats were certainly not filled in the past for Short Cuts or Kansas City and not even for the more mainstream Altman pics of The Player or Dr. T and His Women.  I think we are moving into a time when movies are going to improve and have more people see them, and I am glad that Robert Altman is one of the director's to be there making those movies. "},{"Title":"Altman - a Merchant/Ivory wannabe?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The mere fact that Robert Altman has turned in his first film since Short Cuts that wasn't a tedious, undercooked bore DOES NOT entitle him to be crowned Best Director by every critics' organization -- and now the Golden Globe group, a Dick Clark company -- who can't get over the fact that Altman wasn't given the '75 Best Director Oscar for Nashville and hope this faux Merchant-Ivory consignment outfit will do the trick. No, you CAN'T identify who's who, or who's who's servant is, or what the relationships are amongst the host family and their guests. Anyone who hasn't seen and appreciated the 99% British actors' previous works (i.e., anyone under 25, and certainly not a general audience) wouldn't have a clue who Alan Bates, Derek Jacobi, Eileen Aitkins and Michael Gambon were. If I hadn't known myself, I'd have been as lost as anyone else! There's nothing here that either Ivory or Kenneth Branaugh couldn't have done a better job with, with a lot more polish to boot (no pun).That said, there are two reasons to see this movie (maybe at a cheaper, rainy-day matinee) Maggie Smith and Emily Watson. Smith is as great as she's ever been, playing the kind of character -- the slightly soiled socialite -- that no one else can. She's completely delicious. And Watson's turn as a worldly housemaid is perhaps the most fully formed character in the film we know where she's been, we don't know where she'll end up, but there's no doubt she will survive. But once again, these talented actresses could have pulled off these performances under anyone's direction, not singularly Altman's. If there's an Oscar he deserves, it's the Thalberg for the body of his work, the good, the bad and the ugly. And who knows he could still end up with this year's, just so he's guaranteed a consolation prize. "},{"Title":"Spoilers? Upstairs, Downstairs meets The Trouble With Harry","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I came home from GPark dying to exchange theories with anyone else who saw the flicker of a twist on a twist in the closing moments of Gosford Park (great flick, by the way, that managed to make me completely forget I was stuck in the front row, slumped down with my head back to see the screen.)No one in these user comments, so far, seems to be on the same page as me, giving the answer to the whodunnit portion a conspiratorial interpretation harkening back to The Trouble with Harry--that Hitchock murder comedy in which all kinds of folks figure Idunnit to the troubled Harry.Ah-hah, I thought, Mrs. X only THINKS her dear one did the attempted crime after the real crime. ACTUALLY, it was Servant Z, acting as the agent for a conspiracy of inheriting relatives. OR as the agent of only one of the inheriting relatives--but all the others think THEIR dear one made the brave attempt. Brilliant, brilliant, do you see?Okay, in case you think I'm certifiable, I see I could be wrong and the Dickensian sob-story twist with Mrs. X is the true and final one--and all the other teasers, promises that I'd say anything if you asked me to, and such, are just parlour-game fun.On the serious side, I think only an American director such as Altman would outdo Upstairs, Downstairs, taking the side of the servants most definitely and despising the declining-empire English for their insufferable arrogance and punishing class system. Of course, Yanks know THEY'RE incapable of arrogance, lording it over others, or building an empire, dahlings.Humbly yours, from a cheeky, north-of-the-border colonial. "},{"Title":"A Clear Case of Art Failure","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Diagnosis Gosford Park suffers from flattened affect and chronic fatigue syndrome on the part of the storyteller, displaying a near-complete absence of normal film making or storytelling DYNAMICS. Throughout the film, Altman resolutely refuses to cue us in any way, to say Listen this is an important bit coming up here with an emotionally charged, significant, or daring movement or placement of the camera. Likewise the staging and music are flat and ineffably non-committal. Altman seems reluctant to shape our experience of this material, as if we are smart enough to ravel through heaps of uncollated content ourselves. As much as I appreciate his faith in the audience, I wish he had exerted himself a little more as a storyteller. ---As it is, by the time it's over, you realize you have seen a film bearing the content of an Agatha Christie mystery, but one that has played totally coy, refusing to explode the possibilities of the experience as either suspense or mystery. After all the artsy withholding and cool refusal to do the expected in Gosford Park, darned little of basic anecdotal INTEREST remains. (Jacques Rivette dejavu!) For two hours and twenty minutes, this film acquaints us in a general way with a setting, a cast of characters and an ambiance. Things are apparently happening here, without us ever once feeling the emotions that might arise consequential to something of significance actually taking place.A reluctant two stars. "},{"Title":"Confused and baffled","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed Gosford Park but could not understand much of the dialogue and could not differentiate the characters. Too many characters looked alike and had similar mannerisms.I did not know one woman was the daughter until I checked the credits later. I have no idea which character she was. I could not tell the difference between the two older female servants. Who were the two younger men who sped off near the end? Who was jazing the female servant downstairs? Who was married to whom? Who was the short English guy?I had no such problem following the characters in my two favorite Altman films, Nashville and A Wedding.I had been warned not to try to understand, but just enjoy, that even Altman could not explain what was going on. It is therefore strange to read comments applauding the coherency, clarity and ease of following all that is going on.  "},{"Title":"Good, but sometimes grating, Altman.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having seen quite a few of Altman's other films, and having waited patiently for GOSFORD PARK to reach me here in plasticland, I entered the theater with high hopes.What I left with was a good time, but not a great film. Beginning with the characters, I must admit that they seemed a bit stereotypical and one-dimensional. A good example is Maggie Smith's Costance. Although I have read numerous accounts of her acid wit, and I agree that her timing is impeccable, it is nothing you couldn't get from a good BBC comedy. Further, her character seems to exist only for the cruel treatment of Kelly MacDonald's Mary and to unload her sarcastic zingers. Perhaps the problem was that Altman casted so many good actors that he forgot that developing them might be important. That said, I quite enjoyed MacDonald's Mary as the ingenue, Helen Mirren's stern yet troubled Mrs. Wilson, and Stephen Fry's fatuous, bumbling Inspector Thompson.Turning to the plot, it was somewhat familiar territory. Although I can't say that I am a fan of English class-addled epics, Altman does produce a reasonable pastiche of UPSTAIRS, DOWNSTAIRS, LA REGLE DU JEU, and various Agatha Christie murder novel devices, complete with the surprise revelation of the bastard kin. It was a fun romp, but nothing spectacular.Turning to the Altman-esque elements (cut-away shots that emphasize the emotions of foreground characters reacting to background events, overlapping dialogue and emotional sincerity), the film has all that you would expect from the man who brought us M*A*S*H, NASHVILLE, THE PLAYER, and COOKIE'S FORTUNE. I have always liked Altman's cinematic vision and was not let down here. What was a bit annoying, and was discussed by another reviewer, was the rather low microphone levels which caused me to strain to hear, and inevitably miss, some of the dialogue.If pressed to rate the film, something I loathe to do, I would probably place it in the mid to upper 8's it is a worthwhile effort, fun to watch, a bit frustrating and derivative, but overall worth seeing. "},{"Title":"What if someone really thoughtful filmed a murder mystery?","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I always liked the first half of this movie. And I appreciate a few other Altman movies, not all of them. But I've come to respect GP as a very nuanced, layered movie after viewing it again a few times. Here Altman appropriates a set-up familiar to those who've seen The Rules of the Game, and turns it into a whodunit. But terming the film a 'whodunit' will surely cause disappointment, as who done it? is nowhere near as interesting as the depiction of hordes of servants lingering in the wings to support an enfeebled upper class. And even more intriguing is why an unexpected character can solve the crime, but the police inspector can't.The movie presents a world teetering on the edge of Depression, in which a crime can't be solved because information needs to be exchanged between two strata of a cross-section of English society; but the social order is so codified (the gentry and the service) that they do not meaningfully interact. No one who's ambitious can bear to interact with the servants - And due to a dehumanizing class convention, the gentry doesn't even know their last names. In the end, a fawning, class conscious inspector can't solve the crime, but a lowly maid, who enjoys the most relaxed relationship with her superior seen in the movie - and thus moves easiest between the two worlds - uses information gleaned from both worlds to solve the murder, and the mystery.Just after everyone is let off the hook, the credits roll and a song performed by Jeremy Northam underscores the bifurcation that results in two classes, hitting you with the message Somewhere there's another land different than this world below (get it?), far more mercifully planned than the cruel place we know. For the previous two and a half hours, social boundaries have for once resulted in mercy for the lower class. The oppressive system has, in an unusual twist, worked in favor of the servants this time.I have small problems with the movie but it IS smart. And 'boring movies, as some have termed this, offer you space to think, instead of just sitting there passively distracted by equally meaningless surface activity. There is much more to say and multiple ways to receive the film, but I've hit on my major points. It works on different levels; other people are free to say other smart things about it. There is some nice chiaroscuro camera-work and at least two excellent performances. The motivations that Maggie Smith can suggest with just a small facial shift are amazing. "}{"Title":"Jeeves's Memoirs","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" An interesting and very well made country house weekend genre piece, but unfortunately it falls well short of its prototype, The Rules of the Game. The fault is in Julian Fallowes's clichéd script, which is P.G. Wodehouse without the funny bits. Every member of the upper crust is merely a twit, a cad, a fraud, a boor and/or a snob. We are invited at first to sympathy with the host, a nouveau riche industrialist of intelligence, energy and ability, but he turns out to be more vile in his own way than the genteel parasites who cluster around him. There isn't the slightest redeeming human quality in any of them. Only below stairs is any humanity to be found. If Jeeves had vented all his spleen in a memoir after 30 years of valeting for Bertie Wooster, it would have read something like this script.Renoir understood three things to which Fallowes and Altman seem tone deaf. First, even people cursed with having been born to privilege, or some of them,can be decent and interesting human beings within the conventions of their caste. Second, the conventions of the pre-capitalist aristocracy, however decayed they had become, put a high value on the personal virtues of courage, honor and integrity. Third, in a system where class lines are clearly drawn and well understood, there can be a peculiar personal intimacy between master and servant. Because Renoir grasped these things, Rules of the Game was complex. Because Fallowes does not, Gosford Park is only complicated.The script simply has no patience with these people. Its undergraduate radical view of the upper class means that it misses some of the dramatic opportunities inherent in an aristocracy on its last legs. Freddie Nesbitt would be a more interesting swine, and Commander Meredith a more desperate pathetic failure, if one of the other upper class males, Lord Stockbridge for instance, exemplified the standard they had failed to live up to. Isobel, Sir William's daughter, is thrown away as a character because Altman doesn't use her relationship with Elsie, the Head Housemaid, to open her up. Even a few minutes of dialog between Elsie and Sir William would have gotten us under his surface. But Altman simply doesn't want to get under the surface of the people above the stairs. He is interested in only the servants as human beings, Those they serve, like the American guests at the Jamaican hotel in Smile Orange, are just a ridiculous but burdensome part of the environment in which the lives of the real people go on. "},{"Title":"Upstairs, Downstairs on Acid","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was lucky enough to catch this film at the Kankakee, Illinois, World Film Festival.  Several of the grips were in the audience, along with a couple of best boys.  I took some notes1.  There are so many characters in Gosford Park it's impossible to keep track of who they are and what they're up to.  Some are utterly superfluous, like the two guys who arrive late, by car.  I realize this may very well be a satire on British who-done-its of the 1930s, which tended to overwhelm American audiences with their excessive cast of characters.2.  The accents make listening to the dialog excruciating.  Despite bravado demos of sound systems by the likes of THX, with its pin-drop-in-the-puddle, the clear recording of human speech still needs work.3.  The film is morally abrasive and unsatisfying.  While no one regrets the murder of you know who, it bothers me that the Countess (Maggie Smith) does not go unpunished.  Her treatment of her maid, beautifully played by Mary Macreachran, is cruel, and in the year 2002 should not be tolerated without some kind of comeuppance.4.  And yet, the film is great fun to watch, partly because it satirizes the genre, film-making, and actors. There are homages to Rules of the Game (the pheasant shoot) and The Wizard of Oz (Here, Dorothy, you take the dog.)  Watching Maggie Smith is a joy, but by now, a predictable one. I felt Eileen Atkins's performance was more deeply human.  I thought the talents of Ryan Phillippe were wasted, and his role too casually discarded. Helen Mirren, naturally, ruled.5.  The one enchanting sequence in the film is the musical entertainment by Jeremy Northam in the role of Ivor Novello.  Singing his own material at the piano, he welds almost the entire household, upstairs and downstairs, into an audience enraptured by art. Altman's camera records it all, lovingly, like a wonderful divertisement.  Strange that Altman should award the prize for enchantment not to film, but to music. "},{"Title":"A Merry Melding of Manners and Murder","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A Merry Melding of Manners and MurderThe acting is so good in this Robert Altman serio-comic account of a shooting weekend at a great English country house (actually, Syon House, seat of the Duke of Northumberland - I've been there) it's almost over the top. Some critics have likened the film to Upstairs, Downstairs but Altman and his superb cast had to create their 1932 fun-and-games soiree in about two and a half hours and they succeed admirably.  Listing the main actors alphabetically was clearly the right thing to do - this is a true ensemble effort.What do the upper crust of an England recovering from one war while blundering unpreparedly towards another do?  They shoot birds, down quite a bit of alcohol, indulge in some cross-class bed hopping and generally insure that few marks of intelligence will be observable.  What occupies the days and nights of the downstairs staff?  Well, they don't shoot birds.For those who savored Upstairs, Downstairs or some of the Merchant Ivory films depicting a languorous and somewhat useless titled class, the characters here are  faux  representations of those already familiar.  The butler is a bit like Hudson but with layers of complexity that open up gradually.  There is a Mrs. Bridges but she has a melancholy side to offset her steely command of her domain. Helen Mirren is subtly touching as a chief housekeeper with secrets.  And the CID inspector most assuredly is not based on Hercule Poirot's Inspector Japp.Kristin Scott Thomas, a wonderful actress, slides preternaturally into the role of a bored, beautiful and morally rootless presiding hostess.  She elides through the circles of visitors more as a spectator than one truly involved with her guests (about whom she probably doesn't give a farthing).Mr. Wiseman, definitely Non-U, is a bemused Hollywood producer of Charlie Chan films basically out of his element but trying to absorb the flavor of the country set.There are a number of sub-plots and some of the dialogue is hard to catch.  A better job of sound editing would have helped rather a lot.  Patrick Doyle's score is very nice and the music complements the many scenes.This is a much better film than most others in this familiar genre.  Altman was in good form but he also had the actors and actresses to raise to a level of high interest what might well have been a mirthful but essentially shallow parody. "},{"Title":"Poor and derivative; Very weak; Doesn't quite come off","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" My abiding memory of this film is my irritation with the vastly overrated Julian Fellowes for being unable to get the language of the period right. In Britain of 1932, NO ONE said things like No worries! or End of story!. There are other linguistic anachronisms, but these two are the worst ones. Both expressions are examples of modern estuary English and no educated person would ever utter either. The wealthy, the landed gentry, and the aristocracy in England would never even have heard this type of expression; in fact, they had not yet been invented. The ghastly, interminable soap EastEnders has a lot to answer for regarding the debasement of British English, as has the never-ending Australian soap Neighbours.The plot is very derivative and there are glaring flaws and holes in the narrative. In some ways, Gosford Park reminds me of an Agatha Christie mystery but the plot simply doesn't hang together. HOW did the housekeeper KNOW that the son she gave up shortly after giving birth to him 31 years previously would kill his natural father? For that matter, HOW did she even know WHO he was? She had not seen her son since he was ca two weeks old! He was brought up in an orphanage, and at the age of 31 he is now the valet of Lord Stockbridge, who just happens to have been invited to stay at the country house belonging to Sir William, the man who fathered an illegitimate son on one of his female factory workers 32 years earlier. This woman is now the housekeeper at his, Sir William's, country house. That in itself is rather odd, to say the least. HOW did the valet KNOW that Sir William was his natural father? He states to a fellow servant that on his birth certificate it said Father unknown. There are far too many incidents of the two terrible twins contrivance and coincidence. "},{"Title":"Cliché riddled and dull","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this at a film festival when it originally came out. I came in with great expectations and left feeling cheated. Gosford park is full of every single cliché that has ever been raked over in a thousand British films, TV series, and even plays since the 1920's. It's much like Noel Coward's The Vortex crossed with a cheap made for TV Mrs Marple adaption. If you're interested in story lines focusing on British upper-class hypocrisy, murder mysteries, and the upstairs downstairs dynamic, I strongly suggest you skip this and go looking for a few good Mrs Marple TV adaptions, you'll certainly get a better class of writing. "},{"Title":"Hugely entertaining","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The beginning is a little slow with occasions when you are not completely sure who the characters are or where the story is going to go. But about twenty-five minutes in, it picks up significantly and the rest is hugely entertaining stuff. The direction is spot on, Robert Altman can be hit and miss, but when he is in the hit category he is very good, which is the case here.I also love Gosford Park for its witty dialogue especially seen with Maggie Smith, its beautiful autumnal setting though I love the cinematography and costumes just as much and the appropriately jazzy score. The story is lovely, with some great whodunit elements and themes such as class and social interaction.The acting is very good. Stephen Fry is delightfully comic, and Ryan Phillippe is also decent. And while Kelly MacDonald does really well in the pivotal role, and Jeremy Northam and Michael Gambon are great value, it is Maggie Smith who steals the show in effortless bitchy mode.Overall, a great and hugely entertaining film and one of Altman's best. I can understand why people mayn't like it, it is not for everyone but if you give it a chance you may find you'll like it. I also recommend Clue and Murder By Death, both focus more on the whodunit side but both are classics as far as I am concerned. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I'm not normally into period dramas but....","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just watched Gosford park for the umpteenth time and enjoyed it as much as the first time.The acting is perfect. No single actor dominates or over-acts. There are about a dozen characters who I really cared about. Surely only a director or Altman's calibre could have got such a cast together.I am always amazed by the dynamics downstairs and have often noticed the similarity with a corporate environment. Downstairs is an office with all the gossip; Jennings/Wilson the management.The murder mystery is secondary to the story and you do not expect justice in the normal sense; no one is found guilty and arrested.Each (almost) of the rich folk upstairs have a servant downstairs, known there by the name of their master. Two parallel worlds but with a few sinister links; everyone in the house has a secret.On a lighter note, I cycled past the estate in Wrothram Park today but was unable to see the house from the road. "},{"Title":"An atypical offering that is typically Altman.","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are some movies I love and can watch over and over. (With a decent interval in between, of course, I am not obsessive compulsive!) And what do you know, this is one of them. And yet my wife hates it. She says it is long, (true) rambling, (true) has no story (not true it has several.) And perhaps therein lies the issue between those who get it and those who do not. This is not an ordinary film. Most of all I see it as a film about English society in the 1930s, although I full well understand that this is not the complete story either. It perhaps is typical Altman movie. He tells his stories the way people live their lives, rambling, wandering in and out of situations and if you are lucky coming together more or less at the end. Other films touch on the same ground - Merchant Ivory's Remains of the Day most notably, and perhaps The Shooting Party. But these are totally different films although set with similar characters and in a similar milieu. (How on earth is that bloody word spelled? - But I am sure you get my drift.) I would only say this. If you like intelligent movies that are not formulaic, that have wit and energy and a good deal of authenticity then this is a movie that may well entertain you. It entertains me - again, and again, and again. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had to use the English subtitles since my American ear didn't catch all the subtitles of the King's English. Aside from that I have enjoyed watching this film at least a dozen times - always catching subtitles I missed before. It was akin to looking at an exquisite painting again and again - gathering more appreciation each time. All performances were excellent but Maggie Smith's reaction to the cup of coffee being dumped into the lap of Weismann's valet was priceless. Best scene between Helen Mirrin and Eileen Atkins toward end of film, in Mrs. Wilson's bedroom where she confronts the ultimate loss of her son. Helen's performance went right through the ceiling for me - what a treat. Lance Hauser "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is beautiful with an excellent ensemble cast. I loved the scene where the staff listened to Ivor sing - hiding, silently dancing... I also liked the intimacy that we shared with both the domestic staff and the aristocracy portrayed in this film - it was gossipy and sympathetic at the same time. We learn that people are people regardless of social status - they just have different responsibilities. I always enjoy Clive Owen and Helen Mirren. The addition of a crass American movie maker to the English weekend was funny. The death of the host was incidental to the goings-on of each of the guests. Money needs, affection needs, connection needs - each represented what we all strive to attain - but this movie represents it with the stiff upper lip that ever propels the English. Great... "}{"Title":"Spectacular artistic labyrinth","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A beautiful film and, in same measure, a spectacular labyrinth. At first sight- anatomy of a world. Then- exploration of a deep crisis. In final- fall of an universe.The story is ambiguous and the film is a impressive collection of lights, rumors, great actors and nostalgic flavor. It is a subtle mixture between the Eugene Ionesco's theater and Russian old memories in a decent English atmosphere. An ambiguous war behind the social masks, an strange expectation in silence skin, a amorphous desire and the duty. The masters and the servants are organs of a single body. Its putrefaction is the subject of film and the death of old infamous god- pretext for final remember.It is the image of the end. The end of an era, end of a fundamental crisis, end of an illusion cage. The game of Thompson or the exploration of last relics by Henry Denton, the indifference of William's wife or the fight of Isobel are parts of final act in exposure of lie's corpse.Gosford Park is special for its labyrinth statute. Slices of Remains of day or sarcastic view of British aristocracy, the personal seal of a great director and the subtle acting of an extraordinary interprets, the form of desires, dreams of revenge, the hypocritical drops of a formal decent universe are ingredients of this unique film. And, like in every labyrinth, essential is always the Minotaur. "},{"Title":"Gosford Park","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park, does that ring a bell? It didn't for me at first. However, after looking a little deeper into things I discovered something surprising. Gosford Park has been nominated and even won various awards to date. Looking through all these awards made me look forward to seeing the film. As I began to think about what I was going to see, I remembered a colleague mentioning that there were multiple principal characters. Once the movie began I understood why there would be a large cast. I was now ready to sit back and enjoy a day in Gosford Park.It is November 1932. Gosford Park is the magnificent country estate to which Sir William McCordle and his wife, Lady Sylvia, gather relations and friends for a shooting party. Invited are a countess, a World War I hero, the British idol Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam) and an American film producer. As the guests assemble in the drawing rooms above, their personal maids and valets swell the ranks of the house servants in the teeming kitchens and corridors below. But all is not as it seems neither amongst the elegant guests lunching and dining at their considerable leisure, nor in the attic bedrooms and stark work stations where the servants labor for the comfort of their employers. Part comedy of manners and part mystery, the film is finally a moving portrait of events that bridge generations, class, sex, tragic personal history and culminate in a murder. The entire movie revolves around William McCordle (Michael Gambon) and the desire of the others to have his estate and all that it is worth. As the weekend goes on we learn more about the other characters in the play and we also learn about some of the secrets kept inside the house. It seems as if everyone in the house, whether they are upstairs or downstairs, is interested in what they are to receive. The question remains how can they get it? I feel that Altman did a great job of showing the separation of the classes and directing the large cast to not make me feel as though there were that many characters. There were the upstairs and then there were the downstairs. Each area was separated through the stark, dark lights downstairs and the bright golden touch upstairs. There was one unifying element to the movie. All the people regardless of location were arranged in order of their rank or their master's rank. This made it so no matter where you were in the house you always had someone above or below you, in more ways than one. If you happen to be interested in murder mystery films. Then you would definitely enjoy, Robert Altman and Bob Balaban's Gosford Park. Here is their schedule for the day. They will be having tea at four, dinner at eight and murder at midnight. "},{"Title":"A fun trip to the past","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" For me, the movie has been a fun trip to old England. Everything feels somewhat authentic to what it was in Britain in early 1900s, at least for me (but I'm not an expert, I'm not even British ) ). The setting was a gathering of some of British elites, where some wealthy men and women came to a fellow rich man's mansion to go hunting for a few days. In the interactions among these people, the filmmaker's showing us how these 'lords' and 'ladies' think and live their lives. And since it's their servants that for most part make them 'lords' and 'ladies'; the servants are important parts of their lives. And the servants are important parts of this movie as well. The 'lords' and 'ladies' have their own world and so do the servants. And sometimes the two worlds intertwine, naturally some might say. All in all, the movie mocks the class system in those days, and I enjoy watching it. The characters are rich in variety. Some are charming, some are selfish, and some are very boring. But every one of them makes the movie works. The acting is fantastic. One thing that I somewhat regret is that the filmmaker did this gathering setting (which means it involves many many characters) so 'real' (the filmmaker didn't do much effort to introduce the characters in order to let the movie flows very naturally. And he succeeded), that it's quite hard to know every one of them. I had two or three characters that I could only guessed who's who. Some words of caution, if you look for a story, you may be left wanting, especially in the end. For me, the movie gives a setting rather than a story. And it's perfectly fine for me. It's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as Pret-a-Porter -- but what could be?","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Player sells out on a period piece. Looks great; sounds terrible.You might enjoy Gosford Park if you like a feeble plot, illiterate script and overall a kind of pompous, superficial windbaggery of the worst sort -- a farcical servants' eye scrapbook of what some might think the ruling class.This pointless, vastly overlong (should lose 40 minutes and half a dozen characters at least), confused claptrap has some of the foullest performances by some great British actors on film (especially Michael Gambon, Maggie Smith yet again, Alan Bates and Stephen Fry).They are not helped by the ludicrously implausible behaviour of the circus of cardboard characters -- they seem to talk business ALL the time (so common) and money! Even the tiresome American character/s (is Ryan Phillippe playing an American -- or anyone -- in Act II?) are incredible as people and everyone seems be shouting at each other ALL THE TIME or whispering. Whatever witty venom on offer is spectacularly childish and no-one seems to be listening to what anyone else is saying (wisely, I believe).It is hard to believe that anyone could take this appalling drivel remotely seriously, especially when big chunks of plot are doled out from time to time with such clunky clumsiness.When is it set? Hard to tell since the period bits and pieces are all over the place -- and Bloody Mary (the drink, not the monarch) was first recorded in England in 1956. And precisely where would bought marmalade be available? And what was wrong with Frank Cooper's Oxford anyway?Where is it set? Those standard rent-a-great-house locations that now look more like horrible new-rich country house convention and wedding reception centres than anywhere real people might actually live? Is there any coherent floor plan of the house and the catacombs for the far-too-obtrusive servants? (Continuity seems to have been a big problem here.)See The Shooting Party, Rules of the Game, The Magnificent Ambersons or Remains of the Day instead -- do not waste your time with this dreadful tin-eared goo. "},{"Title":"Amazing Character Study","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is much more than a murder mystery. It's a satire to the futile society of the early 20th century, a touching story about a mother and a son, and much more. The screenplay is truly great. All the delicate subplots are we-written and have something to say, and they all come together in the end. None of then is just a filler; all are incredibly interesting and important. The comedy is subtle and intelligent, as is the drama, and both are together perfectly well. The down stairs part was dark, true and much more dramatic, even if the comedy is there too, in a much more heartbreaking way. The upstairs part is full of light and futility, and funnier. Both work. The dialogs are inspired and some of the best you can get, full of dark humor and inspired sentences.The directing is great, with the camera moving around in a beautiful way and it's never tiring. The editing is brilliant, letting you understand every plot and they all come together beautifully. The order of the scenes is also perfect. The cinematography is adequate; in the downstairs dark and with some hints of light that are amazing, and upstairs it shows the light and color necessary. The music is great.The acting. It's amazing, as the rest of the movie. All the actors are great. Maggie Smith, with her wittiness, is perfect; Kelly McDonald, the leading, is soft spoken and has a good screen presence; Kristin Scott Thomas is charismatic; Claudie Blackley is touching and her character is deeply sympathetic; and all the others are great. This is deeply recommended 10/10 "},{"Title":"Absorbing & Authentic","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman is a director of unique style and skill which he deftly demonstrates in this all-star period piece &#150; he is Martin Scorsese without violence &#150; both wield the same sort of 'documentary' realism approach through gliding steadicams but with very different content. Where Scorsese plunges into gritty crime-infested streets, Altman shifts his setting onto something infinitely more pleasant an off-London country estate in November 1932, filled with lords, ladies, counts and their servants and peppered with upper-class rapid-fire dialogue.The ensemble is largely at focus, consisting of a multitude of mostly British actors. The camera dawdles and intimately stalks these people during 2 days or so &#150; whether they are lords or maids &#150; expertly navigating every little detail of their lives from the plates that they use to the silk boas that they wear. Naturally, this invests the film with the utmost cozy atmosphere. What is most admirable is that Altman somehow lets us thoroughly get to know ALL of his characters, in spite of there being so many and in spite of ultimately mostly offering us trivial details about them. Although there is no protagonist, Helen Mirren, Maggie Smith and Clive Owen all tip over into this territory at several points in the film, only to be firmly placed in the backseat once against to make room for other characters in the country estate. Their interactions are wonderfully dynamic; their dialogue snaps and crackles like kindling in a fireplace.So is there a story at all? Why yes, certainly. 'Gosford Park' is embroidered in intrigue that delicately interweaves all its characters; central to the events is a murder that takes place at midnight. Perhaps the reason why Altman follows his ensemble around everywhere they go so patiently in the film is in search for an answer who was the murderer? What were their motives? Gosford Park undoubtedly offers much to choose from &#150; pride, envy, snobbery, lost love, greed... and more. Yet, much like Scorsese, you get the feeling many scenes do not really surve any purpose other than to give us a feel for the way things are run or to establish the atmosphere. This is the prototype for such a film and it handles it extremely well with a meticulous eye for detail in setting, style and content.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"an interesting inter wars mystery","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I would have enjoyed watching the film more if it had not contained such foul language. My family do not use foul language and I resent having language like that in my living room. However I thought it was quite good as a period piece, and showed how things were at the time in the 'big houses' It was good to see Maggie Smith and others of her ilk in the film. Kelly McDonald was also very good as a fairly recent newcomer, and has made her mark in other films since.The difference between upstairs and downstairs staff is particularly highlighted, as are some of the relationships between staff and the upper classes. I don't suppose we shall see times like that again "},{"Title":"Yummy, yummy, yummy!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A wonderfully accurate presentation of upper class England at the beginning of the 20th century. Fantastically good costume, sets, etc. Good performances by the entire ensemble. An interesting murder mystery as there is really no mystery as to who committed the murder--take your choice there are multiple suspects with equally valid motives, opportunity, and action. It's only a question of who killed him first. The crime isn't solved, but refreshingly gotten away with since the victim was so heinous.I particularly enjoyed Maggie Smith as the insensitive, self-indulgent, offensive poor relation hanging on to a life-style she can no longer really afford. Helen Mirren is surprisingly bleak and dowdy. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's Best","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman has been and is one of our greatest directors. He has only had one derailment in Popeye, all his other films have been good to fantastic. The only real flaw in Gosford Park is Ryan Philipe's performance which is pretty pathetic, particularly after he proved he can act in Crash. The direction is brilliant, Robert Altman at his best. Altman has complete control over his picture and his actors. This is truly he best directorial job, even if MASH and The Player are better films. The screenplay/script is also rather brilliant. The dialogue, the twists, the hints, the character development, the feelings are all flawless. one of the best films of the past century. "},{"Title":"An Acquired Taste","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I plan on seeing this again sometime. Perhaps I will offer a more extensive review. With Robert Altman, there are so many layers, so many characters, that knowing the plot and the connectedness will make a reviewing fun. As it is, I had a hard time staying tuned to all the activities and secrets. There was a certain drone, but then I started to be drawn in to the complexity of all of this. As with most mysteries, especially the English manor mysteries, we have first to wade through the pecking order of the persons involved. We need to have an eye for the British caste system. People are born into arrogance. People are born into poverty. Things stay the same. So when these lines are crossed, it creates a lot of difficulty. Like an Anne Perry novel, the role of women is a particular problem because they are raised for other things than to govern or command. I felt that the performances were masterful and subtle. The people cruel and distant. Hiding baggage seems to be the norm and this must be waded through. Once over, go back and watch it again, and watch it unfold, as if you were one of those mystery readers that begins with the last page. "}{"Title":"Perfect for anarchists","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A stealer of your fantastical thinking during three quarters of this film, you don't want it to conclude, and rightly so, as the feeble clues are not important and the outcome even less. The jousting for position by the acting stars right down to the lip movements is a game better than Cluedo. Historically it explains the reason for democracy although being 'downstairs' in those days had it's frisson.Americans dumped in the plot with their confusion overridden my forward-thinking is a fine allegory of today's politics.A joy for those who hanker after an understanding of the Upstairs Downstairs life within British aristocracy and essential viewing for anarchists.I'd have been the dog. ;) "},{"Title":"Not a Saturday night popcorn flick!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film takes a lot of concentration, so the faint of heart should not attempt it! I have seen it about five times now, and I'm still not sure how I feel about it. I think the British actors all turned in terrific performances, but Ryan Phillipe was just dead-weight. Unfortunately, every scene he is in falls flat or has a seriously sour note. In my opinion, he tries to hard to inject a sex appeal that is ill-suited to him. Far better is the understated acting by the British actors, who nail the nuances of their characters' personalities every time. Maggie Smith is a joy to watch, as is Jeremy Northam, and who knew he could sing! Kristin Scott Thomas' icy performance perfectly captures her character's mood. This is definitely the role she was made for. The comic relief provided by Stephen Fry is well worth waiting for as well. Despite the previous accolades, however, I cannot help but feel that the film is missing something. The camera work is very good, but there is always a sense that there is something lurking off to the side. But, this could be the whole point, that someone is always watching. If you can get past the slow beginning and follow all the story lines, this one's for you. If not, avoid the headache! "},{"Title":"Complex, Witty, and Extremely Entertaining","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Murder mysteries are a very rigid genre, for they carry very strong audience expectations it will include at least one murder, there will be clues indicating the identity of the killer if one is sharp enough to see them, and the story will conclude with the revelation of the killer. Given its strictness, it is not a genre that one would normally associate with director Robert Altman, who has built a career on a style that gives equal weight to myriads of detail both important and inconsequential and then draws all into a multi-layered thematic whole. And yet in GOSFORD PARK Altman's peculiar style serves not only his broader intent, it serves the genre as well--and it does so to great effect.Like most Altman films, GOSFORD PARK presents us with a wide array of personalities, in this case shown against the backdrop of a 1930s English countryside shooting party where a number of unsavory story lines unfold before us in the form of remarks overheard in passing and details caught out of the corner of the eye. And in this respect, Altman becomes almost as Agatha Christie as Christie herself, distracting us with certain relationships and events even while he clearly specifies the drift toward murder--and the motive behind it--in clear view at one side.But like most Altman films, GOSFORD PARK is about a great deal more than any simple plot summary can indicate. Even while presenting us with a classic murder mystery it is as much about the cruelty of a rigid class system and the manner in which it distorts the personalities of both master and servant, even at a point in time when the control of the ruling class has begun to slip. Surprisingly, however, even these themes play into both the crime and its solution, and the result is a much neater package than generally found in an Altman film.Altman, who works in a mosaic-like style, is an extremely problematic director in the sense that you either like his work a great deal or you dislike it with considerable intensity. GOSFORD PARK, which features a particularly fine ensemble cast even for an Altman film, will not change the opinion of either group, and for all its success the film does not attain the same shocking sharpness and breadth of his penultimate statement, NASHVILLE. But even so, it is Altman at his best and in an somewhat more accessible form than usual, and I recommend it very strongly.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Slow burner","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I first attempted to watch this, I was much put off. An endless surplus of characters who looked alike, horrible sound quality and a slow narrative all resulted in me giving up.I have to admit, the principal reason was the sound quality. (I rented the film out on DVD, the UK version. And I couldn't hear a thing they were saying. If I turned up the volume I was bombarded with loud music..) But on watching it again last night (on terrestrial TV), with the help of subtitles, I found this to be an absolute delight.Sure, the characters still looked the same, and the narrative was probably made even slower by the perpetual commercials, but at heart, I loved this film.I think that when you just relax and make peace with the fact that no, it isn't story driven, and know that no, you won't finally know the names of all the characters, you can just sit back and enjoy the dialogue, which is littered with jems and stunning one liners.Overall, give this a go. Do whatever it takes, but try and get through it all...It might not end up being your favourite ever movie, but boy, it's worth the effort! "},{"Title":"Fascinating look at England in the 1930's","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you've ever wondered how the other half lives, this film will give you a glimpse of it in all its splendor - and its seediness.Gosford Park is an interesting set piece, a look at a slice of life during a given time. The action centers around Sir William McCordle (Michael Gambon) and his wife Lady Sylvia (Kristin Scott Thomas), who host a shooting party at their mansion, Gosford Park. Guests arrive for the weekend, bringing trusted servants with them, and we are presented with parallel stories of the lives of those above stairs, and those below. Intrigue abounds in both worlds, and their intersections occur in surprising places. When Sir William turns up dead, the suspects are many, and an investigation turns up a few secrets, but it is ultimately, Mary Maceachran (Kelly Macdonald), servant to Constance Trentham (Maggie Smith), who turns up the most surprising secret of all.The script contains a number of plots and subplots, all of which are handled with surprising alacrity. Points of view shift constantly, but not in a confusing way, and never to the detriment of the story. The investigation adds an interesting element to the story without overpowering it. And in the end, neither the servants nor the masters are presented as being the better world to belong to.The movie is an ensemble piece, and as such, boasts a number of strong performances without anyone overshadowing any of the others. Thomas is her usual ice princess, but since Lady Sylvia isn't especially likable, her performance works. Michael Gambon's gruffness works well for Sir William. Maggie Smith is wonderful as a pampered old woman, and Macdonald is equally charming as her inquisitive servant. Jeremy Northram is exceptional as Ivor Novello. Emily Watson is wonderful as a devoted servant whose accidental revelation of her indiscretions costs her her job. Helen Mirren's carefully controlled performance as Mrs. Wilson is well matched by Alan Bates' performance as Mr. Jennings. Eileen Atkins portrays Mrs. Croft with warmth and sympathy.For those looking for a linear story with a single plot line which is easy to follow, the movie may seem a little tedious. But for those willing to immerse themselves in the period and the people for awhile, this is a delightfully complex portrait of a world seldom seen by Americans. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, absorbing, amusing and really fun.","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" With films we recognise as 'Altmanesque' springing from Los Angeles, Marseilles and New Delhi, it's salutary to revel in a classic model by the master of the movie mosaic himself, as he presides over a richly-nuanced screenplay and an ensemble to die for.While wittily referring to the manor mystery genre, this is no whodunnit, but a multi-layered tragicomedy of manners, motives and relationships within a decaying social order.A Who's Who of British Equity proves wonderfully adroit at the idiosyncratic, improvisational Altman Experience - theatrical knights wielding and polishing the silver, great dames slinging arch glances and saucepans. Upstairs, ungracious tycoon Michael Gambon is bedevilled by in-laws. Downstairs, hostility between housekeeper Helen Mirren and cook Eileen Atkins builds to a moving, revelatory confrontation without impeding butler Alan Bates' regulation of the staff.Holding their own in this company are Americans Bob Balaban (Altman's partner in the conception and production) as a coolly-received Hollywood producer and Ryan Phillippe, affecting a purposefully dubious accent, as his highly suspicious valet. Jeremy Northam is just divine as matinée idol Ivor Novello, who's presence provokes sniffs from the aristos but excites the housemaids.The pivotal character is Kelly Macdonald's Mary, the new lady's maid whose quiet labours position her perfectly to observe the misbehaviour and foibles above and below stairs with perception and sympathy. And although Dame Maggie Smith's imperious countess grabs the largest share of memorable lines, everyone has his moment in this inventive and fully-detailed piece. That includes the valet protesting, I've washed him and I've dressed him, and if he can't find his own way to the drawing room it's not my fault! This is Altman's best movie in years - an astute exploration of British culture that can stand proudly with his satires of American life. Atmospheric, absorbing, amusing and really fun.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of my Top 5 favorite movies","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have never been all that interested in early 30s Britian. This film certainly turned me around. I have watched the film about a dozen times and am still taken back by the hyper attention to detail. I get amused when someone refers to Gosford Park as a murder mystery. The murder is secondary to the plot, if that. This movie is all about the British class system. For me, the most interesting thing is to watch is the dependency the landed gentry had on the servant class. Another element is the class stratification that occurred upstairs extended to the downstairs as well. An interesting point one of the downstairs characters made was Why do we live our lives through theirs? The interaction between the characters is very interesting to watch. The acting was absolutely first class. The direction, up to Altman's usual standards. One thing I don't usually mention is the movie sounds track. It complemented the movie quite well. I will say it is the first movie sound track I have ever purchased. I am quite comfortable placing this movie in my top 5 favorites.  "},{"Title":"Altman's Elegy in a Country Boneyard","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the closing scenes of Gosford Park, it becomes apparent that we are witnessing the end of an era. The movie isn't about who killed William McCordle. Instead, it beautifully illustrates how and why the British aristocracy disappeared in the 12 years that followed the year in which the film is set. Perfect only when viewed from a distance, life at Gosford Park is doomed. The house will be sold and turned into a geriatric hospital. The staff, apart from Emily Watson who's off to wrap Hollywood round her little finger, will all find new jobs on the underground or in Department Stores, where they'll mix with upper class twits like Fox and Wilby who will discover that hanging on to Lord So&So's coattails no longer provides a viable living. The war will come and at the end of it, the British people will vote to strip this lot of their last penny to buy a welfare state (and a decent police service!).It's all there, you just have to get onto the right wavelength and realise (as more than one American reviewer has) that you're watching the very best of the craft of movie making at work. Altman and his crew may be working on a small canvas, like Jane Austen did, but they're addressing great issues. The film is a jewel box of quality performances. Watch Charles Dance as he's introduced to Morris Weissman, Maggie Smith when Novello is singing, Geraldine Somerville and Kristen Scott Thomas as they greet each other for the first time or just marvel at the fact that Sir Derek Jacobi is 24th on the cast list and still has Richard E Grant below him.Sure the murder mystery wouldn't sustain Angela Lansbury between two commercial breaks. Who cares? Our world turned on its head in the 20th century and THAT'S what Gosford Park is about. And hats off to Robert Altman for a terrific, mature piece that will stand the test of time. His murder mystery with no mystery is right up there with M.A.S.H. his pivotal war film with no war. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's best","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is unfortunate that yet again Hollywood did not know how to promote Gosford Park.  It is true there is a murder, and that is where similarities to usual murder mysteries ends.  However, Hollywood chose to market this as some sort of P.G. Wodehouse comedy about class morals and etiquette.  I think this a big reason why many people here did not like it, and it's understandable; they were simply led to believe it was going to be a very different film.  Although theres' some funny moments, it is more or less a drama, not a comedy and not even really a murder mystery.I just watched Gosford Park for the first time now, and I know, like a great book, it's going to be a movie I watch again and again.  Like almost all of Altman's movies, we are simply dropped right in the middle of the action from the beginning.  We eavesdrop on seemingly dozens of conversations, so many that the first hour or so is quite a confusing and even frustrating experience.  But then, as in Altman's masterpiece Nashville, the story suddenly snaps together and we realize that this movie isn't about the murder at all (just like Nashville really wasn't just about the country music business), but rather the circumstances and social powers that led to it.Gosford Park is quite a subversive and, at its heart, even angry film.  It is not just an attack on the British class system, or even on class systems in general, but it is also about the hierarchies and judgments all of us constantly make, everyday.  The servants in the movie maintain every bit of the level of gossiping and social hierarchy of the folks upstairs.  True, the class system and terrible treatment of single mothers at the time ultimately leads to the murder, yet the servants are not free of prejudice, either.This is by far one of Altman's most subtle and powerful films.  It is not his greatest, I agree with others that the detective is just too cartoonish and overbearing, and I tired of the film within a film jokes, which were used brilliantly in The Player, but somehow just didn't seem appropriate here.  In a weird way, I wish it were a tiny bit longer, there was so much left unstated and hanging.  But that is Altman's point, too; our own lives are certainly not neatly folded into plots and subplots that are resolved neatly after two hours, but rather half-remembered conversations, small yet telling gestures or glances, and powerful, truthful moments, such as when one the maids abruptly says that all she really seeks is true love. (Okay, sounds hokey here, but, really, it's a remarkable scene.)  The murdered person in Gosford Park stirs up even more emotions and life-changing moments after he is dead.  And after the movie is over, we can certainly think about the issues it brings up in our own lives.   "},{"Title":"Whodunit? Why bother!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One should never expect Robert Altman to do the obvious, so when he tackles a genre, he usually goes the long way around and ends up someplace else. His war movie, M*A*S*H, is a black comedy. His musical, NASHVILLE, ends up being a political drama. His satire of Hollywood, THE PLAYER, is a facade for an amoral film noir. So when Altman tackles the classic murder mystery formula, a la Agatha Christie, one is apt to be intrigued by the possibilities. The murder mystery is, by nature, the most structured of all genres in that it is actually a game that is played by the filmmaker and the audience. Whodunit and howtheydidit are the film's secrets that the viewer must discover. Therefore, there are unwritten rules. One must expect Altman to break the rules, yes; ignore them, no.As is, GOSFORD is less a whodunit than an obvious essay on class distinctions. Indeed, for all it is worth the whole murder mystery angle could have been forgotten all together. Having rounded up a remarkable cast of Britain's finest actors, Altman gives them precious little to do Those upstairs set around being arrogant and bored, those downstairs stand around being bitter and stuffy. Along the way, there is a murder and no one seems to care.Therein lies the fatal wound. Everyone treats the killing as if it is, at best, a dreadfully uncouth faux pas, not the social embarrassment it should be for the aristocrats and the threat to the livelihood that it should present for the servants. Okay, that's the joke a murder of an important person who no one will really miss. But if the murder mystery is inconsequential, then Altman owes us a distraction that would also make us indifferent to the violence. He does not deliver.The obvious model for this film is Jean Renoir's classic THE RULES OF THE GAME, a similarly themed film, rich with colorful characters, intriguing plot twists and a general air of orchestrated chaos. Altman's exercise in class confrontation doesn't even come close to matching Renoir's Indeed, it doesn't even come close to matching Altman's own ramshackle satire A WEDDING. A few of Altman's mighty cast, such as Maggie Smith and Jeremy Northram, manage to infuse their roles with a bit of color, but most just seem bored. So will the viewer. "}{"Title":"Best since MASH","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I did like Nashville, but other then that all of Altman's work since MASH smacks of an artist living on past glories, Pret a Porter had to be the low point, they say you have to bottom out before you realize what your problems are. Altman makes a stunning comeback in this whodunit set in an English country house in 1932. The excellent balance between the 'upstairs' haughty nobles and the 'downstairs' servants really made the plot move quickly. Also, this is one of the best casted films I can remember, especially Maggie Smith as the mother in law and Helen Mirren as one of the housekeepers. They were robbed of best supporting actress Oscars in my opinion (both were nominated)A highly recommended 10/10. "},{"Title":"THE BRITISH SHOULD BE BLOWN OFF THE MAP FOR THIS!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS CONTAINED HEREIN. This is a movie that goes nowhere. When it finally decides to become an intriguing whodunnit, you never find out whodunnit. The movie just ends. What the hell?! In a word annoying. Yes, the characters are compelling, but there's absolutely no point. The revelation is supposed to be the pecking order of classes. Gee, I never thought servants were thought of as lesser people, nor that rich people were jerks. What a shock. Give me an effing break. Ha, ha, ha.... how clever. The audience gets set up for 'punchlines' that never happen. Why bother setting them up then? Probably the biggest travesty of this movie is relegating Derek Jakobi's great talent to him just standing around doing nothing for a handful of scenes. Avoid this garbage at all costs. "},{"Title":"A Visit To 'Gosford Park' Is Well Worth It! * * * * (Out Of Four)","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman's 'Gosford Park' came in shyly to theaters, but left a big impression on Hollywood. To say it's not only the best film of 2001 but it's also one of Robert Altman's best. Perfectly crafted, 'Gosford Park' plays a game on our eyes as well as our minds with the essence of 1930s England. It's Agatha Christie meets Robert Altman in a short summary. But don't just look at it as a murder mystery, because if you do, you miss out on what Gosford Park has inside it's walls Classic pose, creative intricate plot, and a nostalgic look you won't help but love. If you were to see this as your first Altman film, good job, because this film is simply stunning and amazing. The surprise with the film is the all-out British cast, and it's do so rightfully well that you admire it. Maggie Smith, Alan Bates, Emily Watson, Kristin Scott Thomas, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, Helen Mirren, Richard E. Grant (Hugh's Brother), Michael Gambon, and Ryan Phillippe are just some of the many cast of the film. The large group may seem like too much for a murder mystery to contain while keeping the flow nice and tight, but that's the joy of the film it fits naturally, with nothing rushed or overacted. You enter the film knowing nobody, and leave knowing everyone and their dark little secrets. While everyone gets their fare share in the film, the one who steals the show is Maggie Smith as Lady Constance Threntham, an old, wise cracking woman who's out to get her respectable allowance from Sir William McCordle (Another stunning performance from Michael Gambon). Unlike directors who burnout jumping the gun on films, Robert Altman continues to shine, and will keep going. Gosford Park is a Disney World in film-making. Once you see it, you'll never want to go.* * * * (Out Of Four)A+ (A+ Being The Highest, F Being The Lowest)10 (On IMDB's Scale Of 1-10) "},{"Title":"Looking for an engaging mystery? Not it.","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie will be a severe disappointment if you are looking for an engaging murder mystery. From the very beginning I started to make mental notes as to who the would-be killer would be (there is a host of deliciously aristocratic characters and even a charismatic actor character who belts out showtunes).   I anticipated great fun.  All this set in a definitive English country house complete with hunting grounds.   Lavish settings, with lavish characters.   I was expecting a multi-layered whodunnit which would have me guessing till the very shocking end.Except this movie was not what I expected. First, despite the nigh 3hour runtime, there really wasn't much character development.  Who are these people, really? We are allowed next to nothing on their backgrounds/personalities short of quick introductions heard from the mouths of gossiping maids.  Save a general air of importance and wealth, the characters are not fleshed out.Then there's the climax, if you want to call it that.  The investigator was a complete waste of screen time, and contributed nothing. He was no Sherlock Holmes, and the movie would not have been any different with/without him. Unfortunately, the same could be said of most every character.   Since they were not developed (as per my first gripe), any one character did not hold more suspicion than another.   Nor did we care for any character.  There was no dark, brooding,  wary, or  paranoid atmosphere you would expect to have followed after a killing. The characters were the same bland characters they were before.   They were certain surprises, but they were completely arbitrary, like the background of one of the characters with a shady accent.And I have to mention the way the details behind the crime were eventually brought to light. As mentioned before, there was no sleuthing for us viewers to follow along.  It was essentially one character with abrupt epiphanies who would confront suspects with a `Why did you do it??'  It has to be mentioned here that the suspects express no surprise but instead immediately confides to her their disgust for the victim.  And no one seems to be aware or frightened of the repercussions.  It was almost as if a murder did not occur. Crimes are discovered and confessed yet no one alerts the authorities, and everyone goes their way, and then the movie ends.This was no murder mystery.  Watch this film if you like the setting., or enjoy ensemble casts. But that's about all this film has to offer. And I have to say, anyone who gave this stellar reviews is either a diehard Altman fan, or of the type quick to jump on the bandwagon and praise anything British. "},{"Title":"brilliant ensemble murder comedy","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a delicious example of what can be accomplished in film when you assemble an excellent cast, a fine script, and a strong director lets the actors take the film and run with it.  As is typical with Altman films, one has to really pay attention or risk missing a crucial detail.  Altman himself says that he hopes people see this film at least twice.  For the first viewing, the film will be experienced as a typical whodunit in the Christie style.  But instead of a brilliant detective figuring out the mystery, the police detective is a buffoon, and only a servant puzzles things out.  But the film is truly enjoyed with the second viewing.  Gosford park is more a comedy about the British class system than a whodunit.  And the acting is superb  there are easily half a dozen actors who could have stolen the film, including Emily Watson, Clive Owen, Mary McDonell, Maggie Smith and others.  And then one sees an actor of the caliber of Derek Jacobi playing a minor valet!  All the details are perfect.  I was inspired to write this review partly because the review featured at IMDB complained about fake accents.  The only fake accent in the film is Ryan Phillipe's, whose character is an American faking a Scottish accent. The English characters are played by English actors, and the Scottish maid speaks with the same Scottish accent in real life (she is one of many actors who is included in the features in the DVD - I highly recommend the DVD for anybody who missed this in the cinema.)In summary, a delight and a true Altman masterpiece.    "},{"Title":"You just love those Brits!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies, and sorry to have seen it lost to A Beautiful Mind.  I have seen A Beautiful Mind, but I thought Gosford Park was much better.  Although it did take me a few viewings to get everything, (thank you subtitles) I must it was definatly an entertaining movie.  But what gripes me is that everyone calls it a murder mystery or a whodunit, when it's not.  Sure a guy does get killed and there's an investigation, but that doesn't happen until the last 45 minutes of the movie.  And the whole figuring out part was subtle as compared to full blown murder mysteries.  No this movie is more of a witty way of showing the relationship between the rich and their servants, and what their opinions of each other are.  All in all a great movie and a great way to spend a rainy afternoon if you can't go out. "},{"Title":"One of the best films about the English class system and one of Altman's best works as well.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Director Robert Altman has always been famous for his multiple-layered stories and his great ensemble casts. Just to name a few Nashville, Short Cuts, The Player or Cookie's Fortune. The great Gosford Park is no exception either.   Featuring a dream cast of England's most prominent actors, such as Maggie Smith, Emily Watson, Kristin Scott Thomas, Helen Mirren, Michael Gambon or Alan Bates, this is a movie which offers at least five Oscarworthy performances (most notably Maggie Smith and Emily Watson, in my opinion). It was a sheer delight to see Alan Bates for example, who played in a string of wonderful films in the sixties and seventies (Women in Love and the Go-Between are my favourites). I have to mention Kelly MacDonald (from Trainspotting), who is marvellous in the role of Mary.    The film is a really haunting crime-mystery but it also can be seen as a social commentary on the English class system - and this aspect of the film is more interesting. Old traditions, deviations, greed, snobbery and decadence characterise the lives of the upper-class and the lower-class as well. We see that neither the aristocrats nor their servants are normal people - only the newcomer Mary (Kelly MacDonald) seem to be a down-to-earth person until the end of the weekend her eyes tell everything when she gets into the car. No words required.     In the first hour we are introduced to the group of people who gather together for a shooting party in the countryside. This first hour is the best of the film Altman draws a breathtakingly accurate and detailed portrait of the worlds upstairs and especially downstairs where every gesture is right-on-target. I have not seen anything like this before. While the servants are preparing for the dinner, the others upstairs are sharpening their teeth on each other - it is a festival of one-liners (especially for Maggie Smith).  I sat down with great expectations and I can say this movie did not disappoint me. It is always good to see a great cast and director working at the highest level. The cinematography, the music and the art direction are first grade (this is the minimum in the case of a film like this one).  Finally, I cannot do anything but highly recommend this masterpiece to every movie-lover and for those who would like to see the mechanics of the class system. "},{"Title":"Sheer Class. Top marks to Altman.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One thing - IT'S NOT A WHODUNNIT!! Go watch The Usual Suspects if that what you want. This film is a character study, as Robert Altman did with Short Cuts, and P.T. Anderson did with Magnolia a recommended watch for those who enjoyed this film. I loved this film as I loved Magnolia, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Hours and many other ensemble cast films.  I found Gosford Park a fascinating study on class and characters within the film.  The Whodunnit side of the film was fun and refreshing, as were the clues to relationships and the murderer.  So many films tend to use a sledgehammer to make points today. As a brit as well, it was great to see so many great british actors in one brilliant film. I enjoyed the way the end was not totally explained.  Made you think and watch it again as I will with much enjoyment. Not your average Hollywood film for the masses, but then Robert Altman has never been an average director and the world is greater for it. Long may he continue.  "},{"Title":"Away with plot","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a delight! Film is not about telling a story - books do that farbetter. Film is about wonderful performances, great designers,magical directors who understand that this is art and perfectcontributions from everyone. This film is all of that and more.Those who need a story should seek other directors. "},{"Title":"A drama whose subtle nuances speak volumes","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Most of the people I know who have seen this film tell me they were bored by it because `nothing happened'.  This never fails to amaze me because the film spoke volumes to me about class distinction and morality, while showcasing some of the most beautiful cinematography and set design I have seen in years. Scenes are shot as if the subject matter was framed within a painting, and something as simple as a dining room table was made breathtaking by Robert Altman's expert direction.**Possible Spoiler** 	 Gosford Park follows along the footsteps of `Upstairs/Downstairs' by simultaneously featuring the trials and tribulations of the wealthy and the servants who have to tend to the every need of the society upstairs. It quickly becomes very clear that there isn't a lot of distinction between the two classes other than their money and social standing &#150; even their servants are called by their `masters' names.  Taking place on a weekend in an English home in the countryside in 1932, an almost secondary plot point is the murder of the not-so-genial lord of the manor.  Among the many guests he is entertaining that weekend, there are several suspects.  I say this is all secondary because the main focus is the relationship between the upper and lower class.  While there are class distinctions even among the upper class, there are the same disparities among the servants as well, depending on their job and whom they serve.  While there are some stellar performances in the cast, which is basically a Who's Who of British actors, Maggie Smith is the definite standout.  While she quite obviously revels in her upper class status and is oblivious to the plight of those who serve her, she adds a hint of humanity to her character.  Additionally, she says so much with a simple eye roll that I found myself laughing several times due to her dry humor.  The real star of the film however, is the script.  In a film that sees virtually no action, I was kept interested by the amazing dialogue that was clever, profound and disturbing in its frankness.This film received many accolades for good reason.  It is not recommended for those who are looking for something with pizzazz, but rather for those who are looking for intriguing social commentary wrapped up in a beautiful package.  "}{"Title":"It never stopped being boring","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park/ * 1/2 starsI guess there were a few good scenes in this movie but for the most part it was really boring and amost made me fall asleep. I did however like the acting in the movie, I thought the choice of actors was really good. But I still couldn't help but feel really bored by this. "},{"Title":"A really disappointing movie...","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING * star. A bad movie.GOSFORD PARK REVIEWI seriously doubt this movie could have got any worse. This was by far one of the most boring movies I have seen in my entire life. I actually bought this movie before I rented it, one of the only times that I have ever done that. I was so disappointed after watching this. This movie is highly overrated and boring.Gosford Park is about a hunting party in England. It revolves around the guests upstairs and the servants live below them. One of the guests is murdered and it soon becomes the mystery of who did it.This movie had some nicely shot scenes, which is part of the reason is got 1 star. But most of the movie was so boring. I could hardly keep my eyes open through this overrated atrocity.The acting is good I guess, no more than most other films. The writing was bad. That was part of the reason the movie was so boring, because of the writing. Some of the scenes shot outside were nicely done, but it didn't really bring much more to the movie overall.For the most part a really, stupid, boring atrocity, this is something I recommend avoiding at all costs. The only reason I would ever consider watching this again is if I wanted something to put me asleep. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is full of visual delights & witty dialogues! There is always something going on every second of the film. The disadvantage of this is that the film is sometimes hard to follow. The simultaneous dialogues does not help either.The identity of the killer is a bit unexpected. How did that little maid find out all the facts? I would like the film to say more about how she figured about the killer.The acting is quite good overall. The only annoying person was Ryan Phillippe, whose acting was disappointing. "},{"Title":"A murder mystery with a twist","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a great murder mystery, but in the eyes of the servants. Wherever a servant is, there is the camera. There isn't a single scene without one servant in the room, and that's what makes the movie interesting. Usually you see the movie from the upstair people, or the rich people. However, Robert Altman decided to use the servants as the key to the mystery. He also brought the characters pasts alive. The murderer did it because of revenge, and he did it well. Along with a British all star cast, this movie is one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a big Robert Altman fan. I usually steer clear from most of his films, certainly after experiencing Quintet and Popeye years ago. But I have to say that I really loved Gosford Park. Personally, I think the film is TOO simple for its own good. The resolution is too matter of fact, certainly compared to the way the rest of the movie was deliberately filmed in a quasi-spontaneous, free flowing way. I wished the ending would have been less melodramatic. But with that said, I still think this movie is beautiful and brilliant. It's like watching a painting, where the scenery and people move about. I can't wait to buy the DVD.One day, when I'll have a High Definition TV, I'll play GP's DVD and simply watch it like a painting. "},{"Title":"Boring or what?","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, it's foolish to say that Altman isn't good director, Short Cuts (1993) is awesome one, but this, so called great drama film,isn't great at all. In fact, it's very BORING. Something like movie Magnolia, which is also very popular among so called movie reviewers, but Gosford Park in other way doesn't even get you 5 minutes of full concentration and admiring. Two sides in this story of high-end society in one hand, and servants in other, isn't even described well, altough some of actors gave good performances, there is no catchy scenario details at all, just old british school Agatha Christy-like scenario overlength movie, but only in few poor details. 2/3 of movie scenario would try to build and show atmosphere for rest 1/3 that wouldn't fit even in an old b-production film-noire recorded over 50 years ago. To conclude, watch this movie only when you don't know which movie to pick in movie renting store, or when you want proof that Oscar winning movies aren't always good one. Academy Award for scenario? Please, don't f..k with me! "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To say that this film is 2001's best is a big farce, a big joke.  It is one of the worst, most boring and most complicated films I have ever seen - with a rambling plot, undefined characters and uninteresting gossip. Terrible. "},{"Title":"Breaking the taboo","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `You cannot play for both teams at once'  Henry Denton was quite rightly told.  Well you could.........as long as no one else knew.  The two teams were the above stairs team and the below stairs team.  The dividing line was strict and if you were going to cross it you had better not let yourself be caught.  This is the theme which runs through `Gosford Park'.  The big taboo is to be caught out of one's place on the other side.  Its OK to have sex with one of the other team but its not OK to be caught doing it.Its when Stephen Fry appears as Inspector Thompson that the modern outside world of 1932 intrudes.  Thompson appears to be a buffoon, a sort of Clouseau, who is almost completely ignored by both the upstairs and the downstairs teams because they, and he, could not work out which team he was on.  An Inspector has rank in the police force which places him above Constable Dexter who identifies quickly with the servants.  But the Inspector's rank does not grant him admission to the social circle above stairs.  He does not fit in and therefore is a nobody.  They did not even know his name or want to know what it was.  Fry is excellent and effortlessly plays the comic part which represents the modern world that will quickly sweep both teams away as the 1930's hurtles unknowingly towards the Second World War.A most excellent film.  Two hours passed without me knowing it.  I was mesmerized.  "},{"Title":"what purpose could it possibly serve?","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" ..as REPEATED in the movie, who did it is not important, forget it! enjoy the strong characters and study the interesting timing in the movie. gosford park reminded me of the old theatrically set drama series 'upstairs, downstairs' very much at points, but with a little more edge.the actors did a fine job, i especially enjoyed watching richard e. grant, michael gambon and stephen fry at work.gosford park is the most enjoyable movie i've seen about nothing in a long time.i'm sure people who always want a good old fashioned railwaytracked story are going to be disappointed, people who didn't 'get' mulholland drive or amélie. but if you know how to just appreciate movies as art it's a good experience. it's not a perfect movie, whatever that is, but it certainly was enjoyable. "},{"Title":"English by excellence","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For one who loves English and old police stories, Agatha Christie like.., this one should be quite a delight to the eye. Starting with the extraordinary performances of the actors and ending with the very tiny English Manor details, this is what I call a movie to remember.  "}{"Title":"A fitting bookend to M*A*S*H","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can understand why many people might not like it at all it's a bit obscure, hard to follow, and the plot is as foggy as it is in many other Altman movies. That having been said, I loved this film, and think it's one of the best Altman films. It's interesting that a murder mystery set in a British country house shares a lot with one of Altman's first movies, M*A*S*H, set in Korea in a different time all the comments above also apply to the early movie as well. In Gosford Park, it becomes clear that the plot's not the thing; if anything, it's a bit of a distraction. A group of relatives and friends - well, acquaintances, at any rate - gather in a for a weekend of shooting and socializing; somebody ends up dead, we find out whodunnit, everyone leaves. How common is that? But the point isn't the murder; it's, among other things, the tensions created by the class/caste system at that time, the hostility masked by the manners exhibited by the upper classes, the subtle (and not-so-subtle) insults and barbs thrown around, and (it seems to me) the constant tension created by an environment of huge disparities of income. Kind of like Dallas on any Sunday.Visually, the film is a complete treat; the cinematography is superb. Sonically, non-Altman fans (and myself) will complain that much of the dialogue is obscured and fragmented. This is completely deliberate; I got the DVD and turned on the subtitles and got quite a bit more out of the third viewing. But - and this is what makes both this (and M*A*S*H, and McCabe and Mrs. Miller) really a masterpiece - even though you don't get every word, suddenly you realize that you know exactly what's going on. Altman's ability to get this across to the audience in spite of the difficulty of understanding the details is what makes him a master.Finally, the one thing I really disliked about this movie is that, in the end, you realize that these people, all of them, really don't care for each other at all. Some of them hate each other, others just don't care for each other, but there's so little, or none, real affection shown in the movie that it's a bit absurd and mannered.High points every moment on screen with Helen Mirren in it. She just crackles. Recall that she and Michael Gambon were also in The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover, with him playing a younger and louder version of the same role. Every moment that Jeremy Irons is singing, indeed, every moment he's onscreen. And of course, Maggie Smith, who just licks up her part like a purring, nasty, housecat lapping up cream; she steals every scene she's in and you know she knows it. Her comments to Ivor Novello (Jeremy Irons) What is it like, you know, when a movie just kind of flops? It must be so difficult so venomous, and delivered with such faux sympathy - defines her to at T.As I said, not everyone's poisoned cup of tea.  "},{"Title":"A film to analyse","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was promised a murder mistery and I was expecting something in the style of an Hercule Poirot- or a Sherlock Holmes-story. Instead I got a film where every characters is troughoutly analised, twisted and served for the viewer. The story is well made, slightly predictible tough. But this is not what makes the film intresting. It is the line up of characters we see, coming and going. The story is presenting us all kinds of people, a neurotic teenager, the typical american producer, the money-hungry son-in-law, the innocent maid or the dull inspector. They all add their pieces in the story wich makes it worthy of the nominations it recieved. I could not place any actor in front of the others saying he or she played very well. I would say that the casting was outstanding. They choose the right actors/actresses for the right parts, and this what made a solid ground of the film, on which the director could easily add on the tale. But what makes this film strong may weaken it also. There are just too many characters to keep track on, and it might seem to some, that when the movie is finished, they did not comprehend the storyline for full, instead lost in the maze of relations which the many characters have with each others. I want to recommend this movie to everyone who likes a good film, and foremost like a film that carries the classic style. It is also recommended for the wonderful scenery. I would give a rating of 8/10. "},{"Title":"I had to use subtitles too!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Minor SPOILER in the middle I am generally a fan of Robert Altman, but this is definitely not one of my favorites.  I agree with others who have mentioned poor sound quality. It was hard to hear the voices when the background sounds were so loud! (and I am not hearing impaired).  Like several others who have posted here, I ended up turning on the subtitles. I have had to use subtitles before with a few British films (Those with what I suppose to be 'lower class accents,' namely in Little Voice and The Full Monty. However, I have never previously used subtitles with Merchant Ivory films or others depicting the upper class.)  Strange. Anyway, I also agree that there were too many characters to keep straight.  Even at the end, I was trying to connect the names with the faces and sort out their relationships.  (Having the subtitles on probably made this worse as I was paying more attention to the words rather than what was shown on-screen.)  I disagree with those who have said that the mystery is not solved at the end...the 2 parties are accused and both are guilty!  I think I would have gotten even more out of this film if I would have viewed it again, but I don't have the patience to do that. Afterwards, we watched the Deleted Scenes with Altman's commentary on why they were deleted.  Time after time, Altman said that various scenes were deleted because they were not necessary to the plot, or that the point had been explained elsewhere.  I disagree.  With as many characters as there were, I think that reinforcing a few points would have made the film easier to follow.  Overall 7/10.  I am thinking about down-grading to a 6/10. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT CHARACTERIZATIONS OR PRETENTIOUS RUBBISH","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those films that you may find yourself watching several times if for no other reason than just to see what you've missed and why the critics loved it. Robert Altman is a brilliant director and a master of camera movement but the truth is that his films miss more often than hit. I'm afraid this is one of the former. There are too many potentially interesting characters and their depiction becomes necessarily stereotypal and the story seems interminably long. Good performances don't help Altman's generalization that the wealthy and sophisticated can be just as dull and petty as the lower classes since we all know or should know that and films of this magnitude and budget should at least try to be entertaining.  The wit and cynicism that characterizes Altman's work when he strings together connecting vignettes, such as he did in Shortcuts, is missing here. It is nice to watch good performers at work but this film should be used for instructional purposes in a film school rather served up to the ticket paying general public. The murder mystery turns out to be too simple for the amount of time one tries to analyze the suspects "},{"Title":"Very good, but not for everyone.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is all critics' fault. They all said this movie was about a murder mystery and it isn't. Is their fault that so much people doesn't like such a wonderful film.     The movie isn't about `Who done it?' is about `Who's Who' and if you watch carefully, you'll see that this people did not change at all at the end of the film, except for those sisters who love each other again.    But yes, I have to admit that is really hard to fallow. I've watched it four times and I still don't have the slightest idea of who the hell is Lord Stockbridge. And I knew it was Robert who stabbed the guy. This isn't a movie for everybody, specially headless teenagers looking for livery confessions and detective's amazing conclusion which was obvious from the beginning. But I love the character development, and each time I love it more.    If you are occidental, you'll fell like a servant instead of an Upstairs. That's the idea, I believe because the British tend to look at the past, and the Americans to the present. I mean, I liked Mabel from the beginning, without even knowing where she was from. And the Countess of Trentham. I didn't knew whether to love her or hate her. She is that vision of England most of us have, pride, luxurious and very hypocrite. No offence to British people.   Is a great dramatic movie about a murder, where the less important thin of them all is the murder itself.   "},{"Title":"Too much mumbling","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What for me would have been a ten out of ten film was hugely spoilt by the mumbling and audibility of the actors, particularly in the first part of the film. What a waste of a sparkling dialogue. The multiplicity of characters was confusing - but this is part of the charm of a film. Who wants to see a film where everything is dished out on a plate leaving nothing to stimulate the mind. "},{"Title":"Beautiful English set-piece","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not a fast mover, but an interesting film if you like dialogue and have a healthy curiousity about English country life. There's no car chase, no explosions and the intrigue is subtle and (apparently, given the tenor of some of these reviews) easily missed. The cast is great, the dialogue is excellent and the setting is impeccable. Highly recommended, if you like this sort of thing.Contrary to an earlier review, only one American actor fakes an accent (Scottish, not English) and there are only two Americans actors in the film.  "},{"Title":"Another Altman Gem","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've been a long-time Robert Altman fan, and am very partial to his cinematic story-telling style. Even his less well-received efforts are usually personal favorites. But there are no disagreements between the movie critics, paying public, and me with Gosford Park. It's almost unanimously considered one of 2001's best movies. (I've read that if Altman kept his mouth shut during Oscar-voting season, he'd own one now). Set in 1930s England, it transpires over a weekend-long hunting party at a baronial country estate. The action is split between the high-society guests, and their servants. In true Agatha Christie fashion, someone is murdered, but the murder is not the heart of the movie. It's the characters themselves, and how they interact and relate with one another, formally and informally, servant and master. This movie is Grade A in every respect. It's an especially good choice for a rental on a 'family night' and everyone's sick to death of romantic comedies and cheap actioners.  "},{"Title":"Great cast and a good direction","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw two movies with Robert Altman as director; Prêt à Porter with Julia Roberts and Lauren Bacall and Cookie's Fortune with Glenn Close, Chris O'Donnell. They were both a little disappointing, although there were great performances. But I can assure you Altman is back with this British whodunit story, plenty of great British actors (Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas, Alan Bates, Hellen Mirren...) and also a few Americans like Jeremy Northam. Altman is known for his cast, there are always great actors in his films.He still is a great director, he was responsible for 'M*A*S*H' or 'Short Cuts'.  I was wondered what this Agatha Christie story would bring? Well like in the most films of Robert, there are a lot of characters and that makes it sometimes confusing. We have 2 groups of people in this film.(1) The servants, the butlers, the maids, the cooks... = the people from downstairs like Helen Mirren, Emily Watson, Alan Bates...(2) The countesses and people with a lot of money = the people from upstairs like Maggie Smith, Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott Thomas. So we get an upstairs, downstairs film, where the two classes are wonderfully shown to us.We have almost 15 characters in this film and you hardly know all their names. But grace to the director and screenwriter you can follow the film very good. There is also a guide in this story, Kelly Macdonald (the maid of Mrs. Trentham). Well you don't see clearly, but she is there in every important scene. Every character gets the time to show to the public, who they are, what they want. This kind of cinema is a good opportunity for the actors to give the best from themselves and you see that they enjoy it, but I give lather some more details about the performances of each actor.Now something about the story The shooting party in Gosford Park is always a great event; a lot of visitors come to enjoy the event together with their employees. But than suddenly Sir William (M. Gambon), the head of Gosford Park is killed and nearly everyone could do it and almost everyone has a motive. So detective Thompson (S. Fry) comes to look at the case. In this movie you have two things to follow;  - Who has murdered Sir William? - The evolution of each character.I choose the most important characters to follow, because follow every character is too difficult.Some words about the performances of the actorsMaggie Smith Harry Potter, Richard III, Death on the Nile, Sister Act... plays Countess Constant Trentham. She is one of the greatest leading actresses of England, and also one of the oldest. But she is great as snobistic countess. I am happy that in Europe the older actresses aren't forgotten like in Hollywood. Maggie is great and she is still acting wonderful. Her Academy Award nomination is totally deserved, she even deserved the Oscar.Kristin Scott Thomas Four Weddings and a Funeral, The English Patient plays Lady Sylvia the wife of Sir William. She is beautiful in this film, the perfect actress, in the perfect part. The scenes between Maggie & Kristin were the most beautiful of the movie.Helen Mirren Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone (2002 - tv movie), The Madness of King George played one of the servants. One worth for here performance GREAT. She said in the movie, I have no life, because I am the perfect servant, well she also the perfect actress.Ryan Phillipe Cruel Intentions, Igby Goes Down, AntiTrust a great talent, wonderful performance and a great Scottish accent, he has nearly the same accent as Sean Connery. He played wonderful as Henry Denton, also a servant of an American guest.Alan Bates The Sum of all Fears, Far from the Madding Crowd played in his own, good style a very good butler, Jennings.  His performance was similar to these of Derek Jacobi.Other actors are E. Atkins, S. Fry, M. Gambom, E. Watson, J. Northam...This a great, I hope that `Voltage', the next film from Robert will be as good as this one or even better. He has again a great cast for that one; Joaquin Phoenix, Liv Tyler...Who murdered is the question, but don't forget that there is so much more to enjoy. Enjoy every moment of this is long movie (but one with quality).Thanks Robert for the fantastic 2 hours (and 17 minutes) of cinema pleasure.Rating 9/10 or ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Gosford Park is one of the most misunderstood movies ever made.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think everyone who sat down and watched Robert Altman's acclaimed film, Gosford Park, truly loved it... but just didn't understand it. I must admit that the first time around is the equivalent to chasing a psychotic horse down a rocky hill you can't quite keep up with the pace, and the action seems to be dropping rather than rising. You also can't follow the plot because you're too busy thinking, Who the heck is Mr. Blond? Though with 35 principal characters who are never formally introduced, this comes as no surprise. I first saw the movie when I bought it in conjunction with Ron Howard's Oscar-winning A Beautiful Mind on DVD (there was a $5 discount if the two were purchased simultaneously, and I am a well-known cheap-o) I had never seen it in theaters, and I was relying entirely on my instincts and the usually-unreliable critics. Even with the modern advent of closed captioning and the rewind button at my fingertip, I was rather confused throughout the film. When the credits started scrolling up the screen I was still craving more the finale seemed a bit unsatisfying and there were a lot of subplots I did not catch. So I put the DVD away and said to myself, I guess it was worth the $15. A few weeks later -- when I had nothing else to watch -- I grabbed the movie off the shelf and popped it back in my DVD player, hoping that this time it would make a bit more sense. Man, am I glad that I did! Immediately I began to understand why this defeated The Royal Tenenbaums and Memento for the Best Screenplay Academy Award. There are some fantastic lines and a lot of great, juicy dialogue. The jokes are so sublime it's no wonder most people never laughed throughout the course of the film! The characters gain much more depth when you can actually comprehend the events that unfold, rather than when you are trying to just remember their names. All actors and actresses give excellent performances, especially Maggie Smith and Kristin Scott Thomas in their Oscar-nominated roles. Altman is a genius director, and although many people despise his over-lapping dialogue techniques, I've grown rather fond of them. I loved the soundtrack and the cinematography of the English country-side, both of which deserved statuettes. After Lord of the Rings, Memento, A Beautiful Mind, and The Royal Tenenbaums, Gosford Park is one of my favorite films of 2001. So for those of you who watched it and hated it, rent it again and pay close attention... you're bound to enjoy it.Overall rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"I didn't like it","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The cast is a who's who of Brit actors I find mostly unwatchable -- Kristin Scott Thomas, Emily Watson, Maggie Smith, Alan Bates, Derek Jacobi -- plus a couple of dull American ones for good measure.  Even wonderful Helen Mirren, albeit in her least appealing Mrs. Tingle mode, couldn't save it.  Lame predictable plot, cardboard characters, flat-on-its-face attempts at humor, pretentious (okay, pretentious on purpose, but still annoying) setting.  I take it back, Derek Jacobi has been watchable in other roles. "},{"Title":"I fell asleep.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Someone once said, Hell is other people. In this case Hell is Gosford Park. Don't use up 2 hours of your life on this film, when it's just as well wasted on a Making the Band marathon on MTV. Heed my warning, be smart and don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A Dagwood Sandwich","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found myself wondering about halfway through, Can the '30s British uppercrust have been quite this vacuous, stupid, and boring? Can their servants have been quite so smart, sensible, and superior to their employers? I doubt it. I fancy the upper classes of that time were fairly erudite and educated, though of course there were some fools and freeloaders, as there were--and are--at every level of society. Nevertheless it was an absorbing and amusing movie--no plot to speak of, no denouement, more like a Dagwood sandwich--mustard on the bottom, mayonnaise on the top, slices of ham, pickles, ripe (very ripe) tomatoes, cheeses, baloney, and lettuce (as in, not enough). It was seasoned nicely with humor, irony, pathos, naughtiness, and passion.I suspect the mechanics of servicing a large house party were portrayed accurately; these scenes rang true, and were quite fascinating in fact. Some of the direction was nothing short of amazing. The shot of the lone butler holding an umbrella at the end of the opening scene--that was a small story in itself. And wasn't it brilliant how the second car just slid into view from around a curve and refocused your attention elsewhere. In fact this sort of thing kept happening throughout the film--you'd be following a line of thought, only to have it nudged away by another.Some would not care for this kind of disjointed story, but I found I could tolerate it quite well. The cinematography was excellent. The actors were well-cast and really superb. I recognized the lovely Kelly MacDonald not so much by her face as by her lyrical Scottish burr, which was so arresting in My Life So Far.This could have been a great film had the social viewpoint been more balanced and realistic, but then perhaps ridiculing Western culture was the whole point--I don't know enough about the writers and director to say.I would recommend this to persons who delight in nuance and subtlety. Just don't go in expecting a whodunnit. Also, if you're an American, you'd best turn on the subtitles--the English diction is daunting.6/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it, but I have to say WARNING!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Because this movie is definitely not for every ones taste. If you are a fan of the books of Sir Arthur C. Doyle or like classic detective stories, like Agatha Christie, then you properly like this movie. If not, you are most likely board to your toes.It is like a single Malt Scotch, stylish and taste, but just not everybody knows to appreciate this.  "},{"Title":"I liked it, but I have to say WARNING!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Because this movie is definitely not for every ones taste. If you are a fan of the books of Sir Arthur C. Doyle or like classic detective stories, like Agatha Christie, then you properly like this movie. If not, you are most likely board to your toes.It is like a single Malt Scotch, stylish and taste, but just not everybody knows to appreciate this.  "},{"Title":"Uh, Seriously Folks","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Please, drop what you are doing, and borrow, buy, or rent Alan Bridges' brilliant film, The Shooting Party (1985).  (If you can't find it, look for it on the Bravo channel.)  Then, compare/contrast that film to/with Altman's movie.Uh, seriously folks, ever since Nashville (1975), Altman has been coasting.  If someone had just told him then, that, for the sake of the listening audience (except for those watching at home with the benefit of subtitles), it helps if the actors take turns talking--one at a time--perhaps we would have been spared more than a quarter-century of auditory confusion, to say nothing of having to turn the volume all the way up to distinguish the half-dozen English/American/Scottish dialects that assault you from every direction, and in competition with background noise, as you must in this movie.  Really, what was originally a clever convention is now an annoying and unnecessary contrivance.And then there is the small matter of the story.  Nashville convinced Altman that he could film a succession of scenes, most of them disconnected, and he would have a story.  The next year (1976), Altman rolled out Buffalo Bill & the Indians, really one of the worst movies EVER made, and yet a few critics raved about it, evidently convincing Altman that he had found THE formula.  There is a tiny story hidden away in Gosford Park, but it does not emerge until the last twenty minutes.It's not that Gosford Park is a bad film, it isn't.  Instead, it's an ordinary film.  Nothing exceptional.  The actors?  Sure, they're talented, but they weren't challenged in this movie.  This is not Shakespeare. And the costumes?  They hardly make a film.  Check out Buffalo Bill's and Annie Oakley's duds in the 1976 film.I had a slight problem with the setting--1932.  It would have been better had the story been set in 1922 or, better, in 1912 (see The Shooting Party).  By 1932, Britain was in the middle of the worldwide depression (it was not just an American phenomenon), and the lifestyle depicted in Gosford Park had essentially disappeared (although obviously not the class distinctions).  This is a minor nitpick.I do think Altman had trouble deciding whether he was making Murder by Death, Clue, Upstairs, Downstairs, or the extraordinary The Shooting Party.  It contains elements of all four.  There wasn't a single scene in the movie that was not derivative of some other movie or television series. There have been so many truly excellent British productions in the last ten or 15 years, but this wasn't one of them.  It's an expensively produced melodrama that is nice to look at, but it took too long to tell, and has almost nothing else going for it.  See The Shooting Party.  "},{"Title":"Altman can Out-Brit the Brits","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I confess I already like period pieces all those very self-consciously understated Merchant/Ivory films and all of Altman's stuff. So, I am not objective. But I was not disappointed, the movie looks good, has all those sly fleeting camera observations about human character, and a cast who could read the Phone Book and make it seem deep. Altman is one of the few American directors who dares to admit we even have a class system but he did not swing the hammer in an attempt to make his point about the vast differences between some folk. The mystery was not much of a mystery but the movie has flow considering not much happened and every person in the ensemble cast helped to complete the canvas. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film....the most engrossing and entertaining I've seen this year.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a sparkling, delightful, enthralling, intriguing, delectable delight!Brilliantly directed, it is a film about human relationships in an aristocratic world, with the murder mystery almost an aside. This superb film is flawlessly acted and beautifully shot. Altman must feel that his vision for this film was fully realized.It did not bother me at all that the film really needs to be seen twice, the second time to find every clever detail, and for us Yanks to get every bit of dialogue.The film requires incredible concentration....which probably accounts for the under-50s crowd wondering what the fuss was about.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful but distant","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had almost no characters worth caring about. The main character of Mary is the sweetest and most sympathetic. Most characters are just awful. I couldn't imagine wanting to spend any amount of time with these people. The rich are mostly greedy and amoral while the servants are downtrodden and amoral.I guess these are *spoilers* ahead.  One character is revealed as a sleazy bisexual sex fiend. I didn't see the need for the inclusion of homosexuality. The thing that really bothers me the most about this film is the attitude at the end. Once the killer is revealed, no one bothers to notify the police. The idea is,Why bother? It would do more harm than good. After all, he deserved it. This is a very callous and dangerous attitude.Other than that the film was well-made. The setting and costumes are lush and the cast is star-studded. Strangely enough it is Kelly MacDonald as Mary that saves the film for me. 6/10 "},{"Title":"I want my 2 hrs back!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  So, I think my disappointing analysis will be a minority in the sea of praise I have read about this movie.  I have wanted to see this movie since the VERY first preview.  I couldn't entice any of my friends or family to see it in theaters so I rented last night.  Yeah, so, I figured ok, it has a slow start, it will build and pick up the pace as it goes. . . I don't think I could have tried to be more wrong.  NEVER did I care what happened. I think I should have had a magnifying glass with me to discern any semblance of a plot!  Someone tell me where to find the decoder ring to the humor of this movie.  Gives new meaning to the word subtle. "}{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie. Love, love, love, love, love it. Words can't describe how much enjoyment I got out of seeing this film.This is Altman at his best. Juggling a huge cast and multilayered story with the visual requirements of the era the movie is set in. Most films, especially today, follow an disappointingly narrow, linear path. Everything that characters say or do in them is in the service of the plot and arrival at wherever it is that the movie is supposed to arrive. Well, this is not how Altman makes movies. His characters are real multifaceted personalities, they don't spew lines simply because that is what's required to move the plot along. Watching this movie I felt like I was invited to this 1930s English lavish estate. Altman took his time to introduce me to these fascinating characters, their quirks and insecurities. He showed me around this house and in doing so gave me plenty of insight into this era and it's people. I felt privileged to be there.To view this work as an Agatha Christie mystery is missing the point of it. Who cares, really, who killed Sir William. This is just a dramatic setting for Altman to work his magic and one aspect of this film, but  there's so much more to it. Unfortunately, many moviegoers, influenced by years of Hollywood crap, have been preprogrammed to view movies as sort of rehearsed exercises where predictability is almost desirable. Hollywood teaches us that every movie has to fit a category, stay within it and follow its rules. Well, I'm happy that there are still directors in America who don't subscribe to this view. "},{"Title":"Not for the dull-witted","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The greatest british movie of all time!  This movie was slow, yes, but extremely well done.  Maggie Smith deserves all the credit for carrying this film, however.  Her role as the rich snob was PERFECTLY done!  Everything down to the last detail; it was SO great. I'm sorry to all those people with room-temperature IQs who found this movie boring.  Maybe you should stick to movies that suit your level better...like Spot's Thanksgiving. "},{"Title":"This film was terrible","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After watching this film i felt strange, not that my feelings were undecided. The film was terrible. Infact, terrible does not even being to describe it.If you like a film that goes nowhere and has a plot like water then with Gosford Pard you are on to winner.I have only just finished watching it around 20 minutes ago and still i wish to God that he would refund that 2 hours and who cares how many minutes of my life. I feel cheated!In my own opinion, anyone who actually thinks this film is worth any humans time has more than one screw loose.As i said before, this film lasts approximately 130 minutes. The whole thing could have been summarised and produced as a short (30 minute) film and still had as much impact on the viewers, infact, probably alot more. They would have been glad it was over so quickly.I have watched alot of films.. some good, some bad, some really bad. But this is the original TERRIBLE moive. "},{"Title":"de-glamorizing the past","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  British people are wedded to the past.  Living in England, one is dished up a glamorized version of the Victorian golden era, but it is rare to hear critical comments about this period.  Even today, the films produced about this era deal with the upper classes playing their little games or solving yet another silly murder.Gosford Park is a movie that debunks and de-glamorizes the Victorian era. Although the surface image of this era may be glamorous due to the opulent setting and the sophistication of its characters, the film reveals the upper classes as a shallow, snobbish and mean spirited bunch.  The aristocrats barely tolerate each other, and their meetings have a lot to do with obtaining allowances from the wealthy factory owner who grudgingly subsidized the lot.  This time the tolerance gives way to outright hostility because the industrialist refuses to distribute allowances that were forthcoming in the past.    Once the economic relationship is brought into question, the false gentility gives way to a bare disdain.What sets the film apart is that it is also willing to explore the people who are usually in the background in other films.  The butlers and the maids also have a story, one often intertwined with that of their masters.  At Gosford Park all the servants lose their identity - they are not referred to by their own names, but are referred to as `servant to X'.  Not only is their identity erased, but also more pernicious aspects of the abuse of power become evident.  Yet another myth of this most prudish of eras is debunked and it pertains to sexual exploitation.  It is clear from the film that the alternative to working at this ghastly house is abject poverty, and thus there was little alternative to what amounted to prostitution.The film culminates with the murder of the industrialist - and it reveals that everyone has an ax to grind.  Below the veneer of upper class gentility resides an egoistic and shallow bunch of people with little regard for others.  The servants are victims of their circumstances, but some of them are perhaps willing participants.Gosford Park does us all a favor by demolishing the glamorized history of the time.  It is time to take the good bits of history, and safely jettison and question the remainder.  This film will make you think twice before going to the next Victorian period film that pops up.  "},{"Title":"One of the great films","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Following Renoir's Rules of the Game (La Regle du Jeu), I believe Gosford Park will come in time to be recognized as one of the great moments in film history. Like others of its quality, to fully appreciate this movie you must see it more than once. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie; not for the easily distracted","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was excellent!  Maggie Smith undoubtedly carried the movie as the hilarious old, rich broad with an attitude.  Her sophisticated one liners make this movie worth the wait. I'll grant there isn't much to wait for.  Personally, I can easily sit through slow, good movies, but many can't.  If you can't, don't see this movie.  It did, however, fully earn all of the recognition it received. You can't see this movie and not plan on thinking.  Unlike many movies, this movie keeps your mind on your toes (even from the very start when you try to keep track of the wave of characters). "},{"Title":"I can see why the Academy picked this movie!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just went to go see this movie at the Parkway in Oakland, ready to see a good movie. I heard rave reviews, had my pizza and beer and my friend Erin. We both wanted to see this movie. Boy was I wrong. I wanted my 2 1/2 hours back. First, it took an hour to get to the main plot point in the movie. Second, alot of the chracters have no relevance or point of being there. It just drags on and on. I mean I am not a intellectual snob, I like all movies all genres. As long as they entertain. But I am sorry this movie does not do that. Just bored me. It is better then most hollywood trival garbage comes out, but its still no excuse to bore me. I can see why the Academy choose this movie, I mean God forbid that they pick a movie substance, make me cry, laugh, make me think or just entertain. Gosford Park did none of those. On a side note, never trust what the academies view of best picture, half the time they are so far off. -Danny "},{"Title":"A crazy psycho good movie (read a review for teens)","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow. I went to Gosford Park thinking, this is going to suck, but I was really really amazing. I mean a) it has a super plot that kept my friend and I looking for crazy stuff like moving sugar shakers, b) they all use those oh-so-cool English accents that you just love, c) Maggie Smith is so funny, d) Ryan Phillipe is so so so severely good that you can't stop watching him. Really, this movie rocks. I so wanted it to win for best picture, or at least best director, or supporting actress or something, but it was amazing. Go see Gosford Park! "},{"Title":"Crowded film!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was an enjoyable film and the standard of acting was good.  Although the impressive cast list was one of the main attractions for the film, the large number of key characters (and the fact they were often referred to using different names) made the plot more complicated and a bit difficult to follow.  Probably a film that has to be seen twice to fully understand it! "},{"Title":"Beautiful but slightly dull","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  On the plus side, this is a beautifully done period piece with more realism than many British films. MINOR SPOILEROn the negative side, it's rather dull because, frankly, not enough people die; Altman sets up a collection of mostly undesirable people, but without saying how many get killed, I rather wished a few more had gone down. The plot secrets are also too well signposted for my liking. If you want some really good period murder mysteries, check out any of BBC TV's Poirot series - now those will really get those brain cells moving.  "}{"Title":"This year's period art act.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It had to happen.  It wouldn't be a year for the industry without a stuffy (usually British) art piece.  Gosford Park fills the bill with more than enough syrup.  Technical credits were all fine, but today's audiences deserve more.  Take out the pretentious overdone high society British schtick, add some coherence and satisfying twists and Gosford might have been deserving of whatever praise it is receiving.  The obligatory cursing was a distraction.  It's the film that bumped much more worthy productions such as Amelie or Black Hawk Down from the best picture nominations.  And what was with everyone hating the adorbale Pip the Dog?  Thank goodness he made it through the film.  When he rode away with his head sticking out of the travel bag, I felt good that all was not lost.  "},{"Title":"Altman's Best Film","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  	Director Robert Altman assembled an all-star ensemble cast for this story of mores and morals, relationships and class distinction.  It's an insightful foray into the human condition, filled with pettiness, indiscretion, passion and lust, dignity (as well as lack thereof), an aloof disregard for our fellow man, and finally, even love; all of the things that make life-- well, if not worth living-- just `life,' by definition.  It's all found in `Gosford Park,' during one particularly eventful weekend, from which Altman manages to paint a vivid and realistic portrait that is a telling study of what it is that makes the world go &#145;round. 	It's 1932 England, and a select group of those from the upper crust of society have gathered at the country estate of Sir William and Lady Sylvia McCordle (Michael Gambon and Kristin Scott Thomas) for a weekend shooting party.  But it's a weekend that will find the guests engaging in a variety of `sports,' the least of which has to do with the shooting of birds, and will ultimately involve the untimely demise of one of those present.  Yes, murder is afoot among the privileged and those who serve them, and there are suspects and motives aplenty.  And though it's a dreadful affair, it causes seemingly little consternation among the friends and family of the deceased, and at the same time affords at least one guest, Mr. Morris Weissman (Bob Balaban), with a unique opportunity.  Weissman is a Hollywood movie producer, in attendance at this extended soiree for the purpose of researching his next project, `Charlie Chan in London,' a murder mystery that takes place at a country estate.  So it appears that this may become a case of art imitating life.  First, however, the dust will have to settle and it will all have to be sorted out; and we find that before it's over, that can be a murky business, indeed.  But such is life among the aristocracy, among whom even murder can be taken in stride-- and life goes on.  	Altman's film makes a subtle, yet powerful statement about what compels the human animal and serves as the impetus of his actions.  Written by Julian Fellowes (from an idea by Altman and Bob Balaban), the film sagely explores the cross purposes inherent in the convergence of individual agendas and needs, and the conflicts they must, therefore, naturally inspire.  Altman's characters are extremely well developed, and presented in such a way that the audience is able to keep track of who is who and where the many and myriad pieces of the puzzle fit together, though they are numerous and involve a number of storylines and subplots.  As he is wont to do, Altman keeps you emotionally somewhat at arm's length, yet still involved, setting a deliberate pace that will make you oblivious of the time it takes him to tell his story (137 minutes).  The contrasts he draws between the classes, and even the diverse personalities of those within them, are incisive; and in that distinction we learn so very much about who we really are and what makes us tick.  The oppressively dry and reserved British bearing and atmosphere that permeates every frame of the film suits Altman's stoic style exceptionally well, and he displays such an eye for detail, from everything that happens visually, to the little snippets of peripheral dialogue and the rendering of all the human flaws and imperfections that make it so real, that this just may be his most perfect film yet.	As can be expected from such an inspired cast, the performances that drive this film are second to none; but the fact that he was able to sustain such consistent quality and excellence from his actors-- considering the size of his cast alone-- is quite a feat, for which Altman deserves another nod of acknowledgement.  There are a number of outstanding performances here that deserve to be singled out, but the most memorable are turned in by Helen Mirren, who is extremely affecting as Mrs. Wilson, the housekeeper with a dark secret; Kelly Macdonald, as Mary, the new maid struggling to learn the ropes of service and the ways of the very rich; Emily Watson, as Elsie, the Head Housemaid whose entanglements lead her into murky waters; Sophie Thompson, as Dorothy, the Still Room Maid (Thompson is arguably one of the best character actors around, as she demonstrates here); and Maggie Smith, as Constance, the Countess of Trentham, turning in a performance that is the definitive portrayal of privilege.  Also noteworthy are Gambon, Kristin Scott Thomas (who is absolutely elegant) and Ryan Phillippe, as Mr. Weissman's man, Henry Denton.	Rounding out this superb cast are Alan Bates (Jennings), Jeremy Northam (Novello), Camilla Rutherford (Isobel), Charles Dance (Lord Stockbridge), Geraldine Somerville (Lady Stockbridge), Eileen Atkins (Mrs. Croft), Derek Jacobi (Probert), Richard E. Grant (George), Clive Owen (Robert Parks) and Stephen Fry (Inspector Thompson).  A transporting film that captures a time and place that now belongs to the ages, `Gosford Park' establishes the realization that environments and those who populate them are ever changing-- and yet they stay inexplicably the same; it's the nature of who we are and how we thrive, for better or worse.  And it's that essence that Robert Altman captures so succinctly here.  This is riveting, entertaining drama that teaches us something, if only we are willing to listen; and even the best of us would be well served to do just that.  By seeing the way things are, perhaps it will give us pause to reflect upon the way things `should' be.  Perhaps it is possible to create a world in which the `Upstairs, Downstairs' mentality is no longer viable; a world in which all men are viewed as equal.  It may be concealed within the context, but it's a question Altman nevertheless effectively asks with this film.  That's the power of the cinema-- and it's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.             	  	         	         "},{"Title":"Good in part","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hmmmm, another British costume drama but this one has twist..... oh yes its directed by an american. Once more this american has a penchant for Hollywood in jokes, so he includes an american director as one of the MANY characters.I dislike in jokes, smug in my opinion. That aside this was a very slow moving affair, which all but lost my attention. My persistence was rewarded with some nice performances and banter. Was it worth over 2 1/2 hours of time, fraid not. A repeat performance - shudder - No thanks "},{"Title":"Don't worry yanks! it's not just you who found this one dull.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Considering, the cast, director, established genre, setting, costumes, authentic portrayal of thirties life in aristocratic England - this film turned out to be a yawn.I kept waiting for it to get interesting, but the film was 90 minutes in before any action occurred and this was executed in an unemotional manner. Basically, I didn't care for any of the characters, the sub-plots where dull, the humour was tame. By the time the twist came and the murderer was revealed I couldn't care less anyway and was waiting for the film to end.Hopefully, this film will sound the death-knell for period dramas, which are about as relevant to modern British culture as a new Western would be to the US. It's all been done before in a far more entertaining way. Probably the most boring film I've seen in a long time. How it got such rave reviews in the first place, which made me go and see it, leaves me totally baffled. Please somebody make an original, exciting British film! This wasn't it despite what some of the critics would lead you to believe! "},{"Title":"Classic Altman","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't usually comment but after reading the long list of negative reviews, I feel I must. Gosford Park is an intelligent character study of both the upstairs and the downstairs in an English manor. The fact that a murder is committed during the film is only incidental. In fact, as several people have stated, I also didn't care whodunit... that would miss the point of this film.To compare it unfavorably to Clue, a ridiculously bad film, is both  insulting and misleading. If you want a murder mystery, go see something else. If you want a cleverly drawn British comedy with true heart and sentiment, then see Gosford Park. If you can't understand the accents, perhaps you should focus your attention better. I admit at first I had a hard time hearing several characters. But after redirecting my attention towards understanding them, I had no trouble.I admit to being a huge fan of Robert Altman - he has an incredible way of presenting slice of life films with multiple multiple characters and in Gosford Park he does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"may be Altman's best ever","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of Altman's very best. It may be his best ever. It is rich with character study, plot line, extraordinary acting, set direction and of course, multiple overlapping stories. Beautiful to watch and will stay with you hours after you leave the theatre.  "},{"Title":"The servant is your master","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is one of the more satisfying commercial offerings of the year.We are greeted with a quaint English setting as the cast rolls in magnificently regaled. Polish up your manners and tune your ear to the variety of British accents making me long for subtitles.The mystery wasn't a particularly difficult one to follow, but that's not the reason to see GP.  Complex relationships, intriguing characters and stunning accoutrements (costumes, setting, props) are the compelling reasons.You will see patronizing attitudes of up- for downstairs servant group. There's nothing more exhausting than breaking in a new maid. I should be paid and try to make her look presentable. Can this barrier be overcome? When it is, the character is treated like a pariah by both sides. You can't play both teams at once as an interloper was advised.Altman succeeds in portraying more depth in the downstairs characters by at least three floors.  Is this American populist cynicism over the British caste system? Or should we reflect on our own?Regardless, Altman serves up a satisfying feast. Indulge yourself "},{"Title":"Veddy Veddy Boring ... Not my cup of tea","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  GOSFORD PARK (2001) ** Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott Thomas, Maggie Smith, Jeremy Northam, Helen Mirren, Clive Owen, Derek Jacobi, Alan Bates, Emily Watson, Richard E. Grant, Charles Dance, Bob Balaban, Ryan Philippe, Kelly Macdonald, Stephen Fry.  Old fashioned mix of Upstairs,Downstairs and an Agatha Christie whodunit set in 1930s England at a stately manor where the victim in question (Gambon), a highly unlikable, greedy old b**tard has invited guests for a shooting party with secrets and lies lurking in every chamber (& chambermaid).  Lovely production design and a Brit cinema Who's Who cast can't sustain any suspense or hold much attention with the snail's pace set by director Robert Altman (who co-wrote the screenplay with Balaban - the Ugly American represented as a wormy Hollywood producer - and Julian Fellowes) yet contains his trademark aplomb with a large ensemble and overlapping dialogue well-suited for this comedy of social ills that lacks sadly any real laughs or life in the nasty characters that populate the film.  Standouts include the crusty, lacerating Smith who has something bad to say about anyone and everyone; Northam as real-life English actor Ivor Novello who adds a touch of restrained class; and Owen as a slightly sinister valet.  In a word overrated. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's nostrum","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  May be some small spoilersI would love to see what would happen if a film like this came out in the summer.  When it is surrounded by big sloppy and grandiose pictures and is given plenty of time to disappear from critics memories and subsequent top ten lists, would it still be remembered come Oscar time or even Golden Globe time?  I ask this because I saw this film last Wednesday, five days before the Golden Globes were awarded and when I walked out I was aghast at how lame of a film this was, how truly boring the film really is.  Then I am watching the G.G's and not only is the film nominated in categories it has no business being nominated in, but Altman wins for best director.  I says pardon?  But to be fair, not that most of the other films that are being heralded this year as Oscar front runners are much better ( with the exception of Lord of the Rings) but to include Gosford Park on a short list of films that are the best the year 2001 has to offer is quite appalling. I am not going to bore you with plot devices or names of people in the film or the character's they play because let's face it, you could seriously be here until tomorrow trying to make sense of it all.  If you want a glowing positive review about the film and a review which tries to make sense of it all, go to www.chicagosuntimes.com/Ebert and then type in Gosford Park.  The venerable old film critic loved it and has dissected the film for all of those who may want to know everything there is to know about the characters.Gosford Park takes place in jolly old crusty, parvenu England in the 1930's.  Many of England's aristocratic population have been invited to a rich guy's house for a hunting party for the weekend.  Here the guests worry more about who they are sitting beside and what they are going to wear than they do about the well being of one another nor do they really offer any sort of friendly allegiance to any one particular person.  Everyone just seems to go because if they don't then they would be missing the social event of the year.  This is where all of the gossip takes place and perhaps business is talked about in it's infant stages.  Most of the people on the upper level are boring old bats that lead sheltered lives and have no idea how the rest of the world lives.  They may wipe their behinds with gold-laced tissue but they probably couldn't tell you what the capital of Greece is.  Their lives are protected by the bubble of naivete that most of them live in.  The only lives I was somewhat interested in were that of the American movie producer, the movie star and their Scottish valet.  Of course, there is a secret that this vallet has and if you can't figure it out in the first ten minutes of the film then you haven't seen enough movies.  The valet is played by Ryan Phillipe and to me, he has turned into quite an impressive performer.  I enjoy him in almost everything he is in and this is probably his most complete performance since Cruel Intentions.  Downstairs you have the proletariat, the humble servants.  And while their lives seem to be slightly more intriguing than those that they serve, I still wasn't swayed.  Upstairs and downstairs people gab and chatter and talk and converse but more times than not it really amounts to much a do about nothing.  I realize that all of this bantering about is supposed to set up the murder of one of the rich guys.  But with this much going on in the house, both up and down, you tend to lose site of the facts.  Okay, was this maid sleeping with this rich guy or was this butler really that bitter towards that employer and so on.  By the time the murder does take place, I was almost asleep.  And there lies the problem.Boredom.I really was bored with all that was happening.  I didn't really care for the snobbishness of the upper echelon nor was I intrigued with the tenderness and sweetness of the lower class citizens.  And finally when someone gets a knife in the chest about six hours into the film, I was ready to exclaim haleluaaaaa!!!.  Things do get a little interesting when the inspector arrives on the scene.  He seems like Keystone cop, John Cleese like from a Fish Called Wanda.  He is dull, not very careful with what he touches and amusingly overlooks obvious clues.  His deputy seems much more in touch with what is happening than he ever chooses to be and this adds some much needed comic relief.Gosford Park is just another in the long list of over-hyped late season films that are really just disappointments.  The list includes but is does not end with Beautiful Mind, The Majestic, Ali and even The Royal Tenenbaums disappointed me a bit.This has not been a banner year for films and Gosford Park takes it's rightful and deserving place as one of the bigger disappointments and one of the weaker films I have seen thus far this year.5 out of 10- This is only rated this high because I enjoyed Phillipe and I have to give credit to the editor of the film who must have had hours of work ahead of him and did quite an admirable job.  Nice job Mr. Squyres.   "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As I was watching Gosford Park for the first time, I got the feeling that I was watching a great film.  Upon second viewing, my suspicions were confirmed.  Altman is a genius at weaving a large cast together, and he definitely delivers with this one.  His methods tend to transcend genres to depict very serious social implications within his subject.  In GP, he turns an Who-done-it flick into a comment on the class structure of England between the wars.  It is an important film in Altman's canon, and deserves comparison to his very best pictures. "}{"Title":"Pure Altman Gold","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman may be almost 77, but he has lost none of his skill  -- like good wine, he has improved with age.  This film is a delight in every sense. The ensemble cast dazzles, the film is visually gorgeous, and while the plot is secondary it is great fun, and the denouement is terrific.  The tapestry that Altman has woven is so rich that the film needs to be seen at least twice to get all of the marvel and joy of it.While Maggie Smith is outstanding, there is not a clunker in the cast, and the newcomers are as fascinating as the old faces. Alan Bates has been in films for over forty years and there others who have been around as long, and they all just seem to get better and better.This is a movie lover's movie. "},{"Title":"a many layered splendor","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman's brilliance again Gosford Park is both one of those the-butler-did-it drawingroom whodunnits AND a conscious, dextrous teasing of that genre.We're in the midst of a weekend's hunting party at an English estate, and everything appears as it should be there's the lady and master of the house, the butlers and valets, ladies' maids and cooks; the invited guests, including a dependant aunt, the disappointed spouse, the colorful entertainer, the foreign American; there's the sleeping quarters for guests, for servants, there's the downstairs kitchen, the upstairs billiardroom, the diningroom table perfectly set for full course supper, the motorcars in muddy lanes through the estate's greenery...Altman brings in the midst of these iconographic furnishings a refreshing ease of movement and omniscience that's revelatory, and we feel as though we're seeing all this up close and real for the first time. We hear snatches of conversation, offhanded remarks; we see gowns that don't quite fit, impolite glances, tics of boredom; we move from bedroom to bathroom, scullery to dining room. There are the usual boundaries defining the roles and places -- upstairs and downstairs, master and servant, English and American, wife and husband, but the borders are all dotted lines, permeable, and as roles become transparent and places overlap there develops an underlying connection and duplication between upstairs and downstairs servants overhear guests' gossip and relay it in confidence to their masters; masters confide in servants; servants and guests engage in trysts, servants and guests use aliases -- in fact, to help the house operate smoothly, the servants must take on their masters' last names during their stay. Doors open and panels close; at any moment a servant can be in the midst of guests criticizing another guest's clothes or a guest can be in the kitchen stealing a taste of jam.The audience, moving through and along with the ordinary events of meals and outings, becomes simultaneously a participant and an impartial witness in a world where everyone is playing a social role and a private role and -- for Altman and us -- a cinematic whodunnit role. None of the characters stand out as more or less likeable or suspicious than any other, and the possibility is always present that everyone is not who they really are or staying within the boundaries, with the result that they are always 'acting' while 'enacting'-- on several levels at once. Even the ordinary props -- photographs, hunting rifles, bottles of toxic household cleaners, kitchen knives -- have this possibility, as does, ultimately, Altman's creation. All this brings an 'edge' to the procedings, an expectation that something odd may happen in this hackneyed world, a simultaneous sense of safety and danger. Set in the predictable machinery of a whodunnit (a usual murder with the usual suspects rounded up in the drawingroom for questioning by the usual bungling detective) we're left guessing and involved but detatched and feeling like we've seen all this before this is after all a cliche (in fact the American tells the English guests that he's a Hollywood producer who makes Charlie Chan whodunnit movies) but we can engage or not (the English guests tell the American they'll probably never see his films).That we can see, or not, while being aware of the reasons why or why not, and that we can know or not know while being conscious of how -- this is what makes this film so dramatically engaging and intellectually brilliant, a subtlety that works on many levels and an icon that will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"Not my kind of mystery","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on its publicity, I expected Gosford Park to be a wonderful movie.  Unfortunately, that was only partly the case.  Although the acting and technical aspects were very good, the movie was neither fun, funny nor inspirational.  I did not enjoy the characters and the ending, although unexpected, fell flat. "},{"Title":"Masterful and multi-layered","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  On leaving the cinema I overheard people saying - I think I'll need to see it again. It IS a complex movie and you do find yourself working hard to keep up with who is who, but even if you can't identify everyone it doesn't really matter. The movie can be enjoyed on so many levels that if you didn't follow the murder plot-line first time around you will have enjoyed the banter, social interactions, satire, pathos, insight into the British class system or any number of other aspect of the piece.A couple of the characters do seem irrelevant, but then then is pretty true to life!Worth every cent and very satisfying on many levels. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous feast for the eyes and ears!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman is truly one of the greatest directors in cinema period. No one is more capable of delivering such a cornucopia of incredible characters, each one distinct, particular and important, weaving them together to make a mosaic of human life in the midst of a terrific story. Make no mistake about it, nobody does this better than Altman (if you haven't seen Nashville, then you haven't truly experienced what he is capable of). Throughout the film the audience warmly embraced all these characters; laughing at their idiosyncrasies and the situations that befall them. The actors themselves were simply outstanding. Few actors of class and respectability would deny a chance to work with Altman, the maverick American director, and once again they have stepped up to the challenge and delivered some of the most impeccable performances in years.I cannot recommend a movie more highly than this one, it is an instant classic to be savored again and again. Do yourself a favor! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie would have loved this","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was not only impressed by the cast, but also by the plot of this fabulous 1930's whodoneit.  The set was fabulous, it was really like watching an old mystery novel come to life on the screen.  If you are passionate about mysteries (as I am) you'll have to get tickets to see this wonderful movie that embodies its genre so well.  "},{"Title":"Robert Altman and ensemble acting at their best.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A beautiful portrayal of two deeply divided class structure in 1932 England, interlaced with wry comedy, multi-dimensional characters and oh, by the way, a murder mystery. Like the Coen brothers, Altman creates a distinct universe for his story, the only place where this story could possibly unfold. Each character lives in each word they say, which is fortunate because, with this large ensemble, no one gets a great deal of screen time. Perfectly cast and artfully directed. Altman's camera meanders through the huge English mansion, pausing on bottle of poison, tables full of knives, and cases of guns to foreshadow the inevitable foul play. The conclusion (and the revelation of the culprit) come along so smoothly that, when they both arrive, one is left with that satisfying combination of surprise and inevitability. Well, of course that's what happened. I should have known all along. By the way, don't worry if the you get a little lost in the flurry of characters and stories that get introduced in the beginning. It all sorts itself out in the end. "},{"Title":"Another superb, incisive, and moving examination of human relations","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For those of us who were ready to give up on Altman, this film comes as a huge sigh of relief. Not only has he not lost it - he's back - perhaps better than ever. Everything about this movie is top-notch. The ensemble cast is impeccable & every member is required to do extraordinary work. Nobody could be removed without altering the uniquely organic fabric Altman weaves between the different classes, genders, and families. The intricate, dense screenplay by Julian Fellowes provides a clean and precise roadmap and disciplines Altman's improvisatory technique to follow stricter period guidelines. However, the passion, intensity, and spontaneity are still very much there. And there's Altman himself - directing with astounding fluidity, agility, wicked humor, incisiveness...but above all deep compassion. A masterwork. "},{"Title":"The most British American movie or is the most American British film?","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman is back and he comes out swinging. He does Jean Renoir proud with this film inspired by Rules of the Game. It's a textured, nuanced ensemble piece that examines class, gender, and familial relations at an English country house in 1932. Fine acting all around with all of Altman's trademark stylistic hallmarks overlapping dialogue, tracking camera movements punctuated by zooms following the multiple planes of action, mordant humor, a humanistic but slightly angry clinical eye regarding humanity's foibles without mercy. This is a masterpiece folks. "},{"Title":"another disappointment from altman. what a shame","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park premiered in London, at the city's festival, which doesn't dish out any awards. Probably just as well as Altman's latest doesn't run the risk of winning any. It's a disappointment to see the man who gave us Short Cuts, possibly the greatest film of the 1990s, come up with a string of turkeys. Gosford Park is the fourth installment in what one had hoped would have remained just a trilogy of rotten eggs (pret a porter, cookie's fortune and Dr. T) On the face of it all we have all the ingredients to make a great film a fabulous cast too long to list playing the aristocrats and their servants, superb period setting in the 1930s, in the gap between the two word wars. The themes are endless class struggle within the microcosm of an grand and isolated country estate; a once-fearsome naval power losing its grip on its empire and desperately holding on to its fusty traditions; America, the teething threat across the waters, embarking on its cultural invasion of Europe. Alas, what Altman gives us is a shallow Upstairs-Downstairs scenario laden with cut out cardboard characters. To make sense of these shallow and uninteresting people he gives us a hackneyed and pointless murder mystery plot, which even Agatha Christie would have disowned. The danger of bringing together over twenty actors, all used to being protagonists, is that you fail to flesh them out and allocate each of them a time slot to taken centre stage and shine. It was a trap Altman ingeniously didn't fall into in both Nashville and Shortcuts, when he solicited understated yet compelling performances from every single of his vast ensemble cast. His genius was to weave the intricate strands of the story into a coherent and gripping mosaic of people and their environment, combining humor with human tragedy. What can I say, Kristin Scott Thomas is utterly wasted. Charles Dance barely gets a word in. Maggie Smith is a painful caricature, but a mildly amusing one at that. Helen Mirren, Clive Owen and Emily Watson, playing someone who isn't hysterical and neurotic for a change, redeem themselves. They're all far too good to be playing bit players. "}{"Title":"Brilliantly Conceived and Executed","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Either you embrace this sort of film or abhor it. I fall into the former category. Gosford Park is a slow-paced but wryly perceptive examination of British classes in the early 1930s. Think of it as Upstairs, Downstairs as viewed through a microscope. The huge cast is difficult to identify upon first encounter, just because of the sheer number of worthy characters who share screen time. So effective is the acting that each of the personae seems to have a back history. This may cause momentary confusion, as you wonder why he or she is behaving in such an inexplicable manner. But it also fleshes them out and makes them appear to be real human beings, rather than conduits of stereotypical posturing. The story line is convoluted in the extreme, perfect for such a murder mystery. I put that in quotes because homicide is only an excuse for screenwriter Julian Fellowes, director Robert Altman, and a brilliant contingent of actors to provide some of the most captivating dialogue and characterization that you are likely to see in any film anywhere. (Personally, I fell in love with Kelly Macdonald.) By all means, invest your money in Gosford Park. You will not be disappointed, unless of course mindless action is your thing. And the bonus material alone is worth the price. "},{"Title":"Watch the writer's comments, not the director's, on the DVD","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just watched the commentary for McCabe and Mrs. Miller, one of Altman's first movies. In the director's commentary Altman said I don't really care that much about story in a film. I think more of it as painting. That becomes obvious in Gosford Park. Many people that I've talked with about Gosford Park have said they disliked it because as a whodunit, it's really awful. Well, okay. But I think that Altman doesn't really care about the whodunit as the point, but rather as just a vehicle to expose the inner workings of the manor. It's really more of a whydunit--what motivates the characters and why they do what they do.If you like the film reasonably well, WATCH THE WRITER'S COMMENTARY! Not the director's, which is okay. The writer's commentary is fascinating. The writer talks about how life works in the English upper crust and in the servant's lives downstairs. Hearing details about how the upper classes of England try to be as rude as possible within the limits of the rules of etiquette is fascinating. It's full of observations like that. You might have to like documentaries to like it, but I loved it. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Long, boring, pedantic, and pointless. I'm so worn out after watching this meandering muddle that I can't offer much of a review, except advice save your time! I'll say more This movie makes uncomfortable watching, perhaps that's a tribute to the director. He really does give a sense of living in the 30s; OTOH, the movie was preceded by an old TV series that already dramatized the tensions between the rich and their servants (Upstairs, Downstairs).To repeat, this movie is over-rated, over-long, and over-done.Altman surely could chosen a better story?But maybe he simply had to impress some UK duchess or such and set the story in that milieu.Otherwise, why bother? Can I have my two hours-plus back, please? "},{"Title":"How can this movie have a score of just a seven? It's an indisputable ten!","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some times, when voting here in the IMDb, if I think the movie has an unfairly low score, I give it a higher one just to compensate. But this is NOT one of those times. I'm giving Gosford Park a ten out of ten just because it deserves it. It's one of the best movies with the best scripts and the best acting I've ever seen. Everyone in the cast deserved the Oscar for supporting character (since there is no real protagonist).The only reason why people shouldn't find this movie as great as it is, is if they want action and special effects (you won't find those here); or if they don't like character-driven movies full of dialog (it's all about the characters and the dialog); or if they didn't understand it (if you don't pay attention, you might not get what's happening). For everyone who likes a good plot, good imagery, good photography, good acting, and not being treated like an idiot by both the screenwriter and the director, this movie is a must.And a ten.But, I warn you again if you want action, this is not your movie. It is a movie about characters, personality, and acting. Most of the things that are told aren't actually said, you have to read between the lines or in the faces of the actors. And as someone said, you have to pay attention to who's who and what their relationships are.But whoever said this is the worst movie ever should be banned from voting in the IMDb. You can say I don't like this type of movie because it's just people talking, though the scenery is great and the acting good. You can say I wanted some explosions and hotter women with less clothing. But you can't say this is a bad movie. It's a masterpiece. But it's a masterpiece about characters, plot, relationships, acting and setting. Not an action movie. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched Gosford Park with no expectations. I knew it received some Academy Award nominations and that's about it.What started like just any other period drama turned out to be one of the best written and amazingly acted films I've seen.I love movies with characters talking. I love it when dialogue can entertain as much and more than action. Gosford Park has a lot of characters that move the story through brilliant and very entertaining dialogue.The characters, all of them, are great. No protagonist, just a bunch of characters together in one big setting. The acting was amazing from everyone. Ryan Philippe in the best performance I've seen him give, same with Kelly Macdonald. Maggie Smith, Emily Watson, Helen Mirren, Clive Owen, Kristin Scott Thomas and Michael Gambon were perfect as well. And the rest of the cast whose names I don't remember right now were also great.It may sound like I'm overly simplifying by saying everyone was great, but in this case it's very true. I was mesmerized by how brilliant the casting was. Especially for a movie with as many characters as this.The direction was superb. I'm not familiar with Robert Altman's work but this certainly was a very good place to start.The film has very good dramatic moments and the comedy is also spot-on. It balances beautifully between drama, intrigue and comedy and the result is a film that is a delight to watch, and re-watch.I think Gosford Park is an example of great writing, great acting, great directing and easily one of the top ten films of the 21st century. "},{"Title":"Rather boring and pointless.","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the most disappointing movie I've seen in recent memory. I was expecting it to be entertaining, not necessarily great or even memorable but at least engaging and interesting.Gosford Park succeeds in going nowhere for over 2 hours. For a comedy/crime/drama/mystery there isn't much comedy, crime, drama or mystery. Most of the characters seem like cardboard cut-outs they aren't given any depth whatsoever. This isn't the fault of the actors but of the script (and the over abundance of uninteresting characters). This would be forgivable if Gosford Park was entertaining (ie. funny or mysterious), but it's not.I think the main problem with Gosford Park is that nothing happens. The acting is fine, the directing is fine, ... but nothing happens. The characters have no arcs they interact, but virtually none of them change during the course of the movie. They don't even face any personal conflicts. In fact, the movie as a whole lacks conflict.As a crime/mystery, Gosford Park could have worked. Even if the characters weren't very deep or interesting (and don't change), a surprising twist and some good dramatic scenes could have made a pretty good movie, but Robert Altman doesn't even try.Perhaps the point of Gosford Park was to be a realistic period piece with a wide variety of different characters (who sometimes talk over the top of each other! How realistic!) If that is the case then I think it succeeds but without a story it all seems rather pointless. "},{"Title":"The  best (and most complex) whodunit I've ever come across","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have to give Robert Altman a standing ovation. Gosford Park is spectacular. It's an amazingly complex whodunit that will leave you guessing until the very, very end.The entire cast is amazing. No one ever drops character and each character serves a purpose - which is no small feat with such a colossal ensemble. The cinematography is jaw dropping. You will notice that the camera never stops moving, which helps to keep the movie going at such a quick pace. I cannot even imagine writing the script for this movie, it is a feat well worth the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay.In my past experiences with whodunits, I've noticed two types. In the first type, the murderer is obvious and the motives are even more obvious. In the second type, the murderer is not obvious because we aren't given enough clues or something like it. But Gosford Park does the fabulous job of falling into neither category. In Gosford Park, we are given every clue, every motive, and it is still not until the end that we figure out what all those clues come together to mean.Gosford Park is a truly excellent film and unlike any that I have ever seen. No matter how many times you watch it, you will pick something new up each time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Entertainment at its best","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford Park is one of the finest films and provides comments by director Robert Altman and screenwriter, Julian Fellowes, as well as a documentary on filming the film, out takes, and filmography data. Fellowes comments however, are wonderful insight to the history of English country house weekends, the arrogance of classism in British social history, as well as providing delightful remembrances of the author's own relations from whom he drew heavily developing his characters.This is a film of seamless performances from every actor and underscores the strength of theatrical training in the British system over Hollywood's studio celebrity system. A little bit Agetha Christie, but not really, the story of a dismal weekend in the country is made all the better by Altman's direction, or his ability to direct without interference in his actor's performances.Stellar performances include Maggie Smith (Prime of Miss Jean Brody), delightful as the Countess without a pot to p*#s in, Michael Gambon (The Singing Detective), the victim of greedy in-laws and dog-haters, Jeremy Northam as Ivor Novello delivers blissful musical entertainment to guests and audience alike, Emily Watson (Metroland) demonstrates why she is one of the best young actors working today, and the wonderful Helen Mirren and sexy Clive Owen are mysterious players in the upstairs-downstairs dilemma. The depth of cast talent is akin to an archaeology dig, it just keeps getting better as time passes.Gosford Park is a film that makes film watching a pleasure. In the hands of excellent players, a director who knows how to stage shots, and with a screen play that is both witty and informed, the audience can't loose. This is one of the best films of the year, it should be included in every film buff's library. Pass the martini tray, Geeves. "},{"Title":"Deserved it's Oscar nominations.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS I Remember the year Gosford Park came out and was up for all those Oscars. I'd seen many of the year's movies but somehow had never got around to seeing Gosford Park. The snippets and previews made it look so intriguing I decided I would see it quite soon which I then did not do. My loss because I finally saw it recently and have to say this movie is really good.I have read many of the negative comments and actually many people I know have seen it and not enjoyed it. I can actually understand the negatives and will freely admit, that at times, this is a tough movie to just relax and enjoy. You have to constantly be on alert-the amount of main characters in Gosford Park, is so expansive, I can't imagine anyone NOT having a hard time remembering names or even who is who. I struggled with all of that as well as with the incredible talky dialog-something that I usually like but that in this movie, was taken to such extremes it was difficult to make out a lot of what was said. If this review is sounding negative I don't mean it to. But, there's no doubt that it can be understood why somebody would have a hard time with this or even turn it off in midstream.For me, I was having such a hard time following what was going on that I finally gave up and just figured I'd relax and try to enjoy what I could actually understand. And once I did that, I started liking this movie a lot more. Part of the reason is because the movie contains so many interesting things going on, it's inevitable that something will make one take notice. It's really not a movie I could tune out or turn off. And though the confusion is present throughout the film, the story is such an interesting one I'm glad I gave it a chance and saw it through.Many have commented the murder wasn't the focus of the film and that is true. It doesn't even happen to well more then halfway through. But the who done it aspect is still there to some degree. This movie combines many different things- a scorching, almost satirical and mischievous drama on social class-with a multi character study with an Agatha Christie like mystery. It is throughly confusing, at times very frustrating, amazingly talky, and sometimes a bit muddled. And yet it is also intriguingly beautiful and brilliantly made. It maybe that if one can't like it, they can certainly admire it and though it had many a strange and challenging moment I'm not one who thinks a movie has to be enjoyable all through to still be an excellent movie. This wouldn't, by any means, make it into my top ten, not even my top 100, but I maybe admire it a bit more then many movies that would be on that list.I wont even bother to single out any particular performance as all were great and the photography, direction etc were all great as many have said but there are not a lot of comments on the musical score. Simply fabulous, that's what got me in the first few seconds of the movie. The musical score fits so well-it's got that same almost indescribable element as the movie and that's important because music can be so important to a movie. This is one of the best movie scores I've ever heard.Gosford Park is a movie that almost begs to be seen twice. I plan to, personally I don't think this is a movie that can be full enjoyed the first time around. I freely admit I still can't remember over half the names of the characters. Or who said what. And who they said it to. Maybe I still won't after seeing it again but you never know. An impressive movie and my vote's 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"A clever muddle","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first sound out of my mouth upon the conclusion of this long movie was huh?. I didn't see 'Gosford Park' when it was released and have only now purchased the dvd on a bet because  I have liked Altman in the past and this flick had a very interesting cast. It is a genre picture akin to 'Murder on the Orient Express' (though not as efficiently scripted) and every Merchant/Ivory production I've seen.  This is a derivative, busy and empty film.  The cast is wasted but some of them still entertain and lift the general level of boredom a tad higher during brief moments, as in one of the last scenes with Helen Mirren and Eileen Atkins which is a moving moment.  There are some good lines here and there and the cast is always interesting to watch.  The house is the most interesting part of this movie.The most glaring problem with 'Gosford Park' is that there are just too many characters whose function in the storyline is nil.  The plot is very basic, there are no twists or turns, contrary to great Agatha Christie stories and others, and the countless side plots are too prominant and only confuse the situation.  The corker is that at the end of this mess I still wasn't sure who actually committed the murder.Altman is too clever by half, or perhaps half as clever as he really needed to be.  The dvd contains the scenes excised from the finished product and they only add questions to my way of thinking.  Facets of characters are revealed in those lost scenes but only add confusion as to who they are and what they are up to.  The finished product is a hairball of loose ends.  In the narrated portion of the out-takes Altman seems very smug and proud of this half-baked effort.  The script won an Oscar which is incomprehensible to me, unless the competition that year was even more scrappy than this effort.Altman has tried to interpret a society that he has no understanding of or sympathy for. He has interpreted the early days of this century in a great house in England through his clichéd eyeballs.  The rich are bad, the poor are good, the poor gets his revenge by stabbing the corpse of the Lord in the heart and then gets away with it, I assume, since the movie doesn't get as far as an actual trial.  The Inspector, played by Stephen Fry, is a complete waste of time.  It makes no sense to have him come in at all.  He does not find the killer and is totally unbelieveable as a bumbling Clouseau-cum-Poirot idiot.The only top drawer performances are from the aforementioned Mirren and Atkins and a couple of young actresses, Sophie Thompson and Kelly MacDonald.  Maggie Smith is Maggie Smith and she's fun, as usual, and lifts the energy up greatly in her scenes.  All the men are bores and have no character.  Charles Dance and James Wilby, both favorite actors, drift around ranting, noses in the air.The basic premise of this movie would never have gotten it past the producers had it not been Altman's project.  This turkey is a bomb but it is pleasant to look at and harmless, but what a waste of money, talent and time.   "}{"Title":"Some excellent individual scenes and great performances, but it doesn't add up to much...","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"     Whether or not you enjoy Gosford Park will probably depend on what you're watching it for.  It offers an excellent recreation of relationships between the upper-class and their servants and some wonderfully dry and concise dialogue.  This means if a particular scene is executed well then it sticks in your mind.  The problem is, I just didn't feel the film hung together very well as a whole.  There were so many characters that some were reduced to irrelevancies, and the dramatic centre of the movie was disappointingly limp and long in coming.  It's almost as if the murder were an irritating distraction that got in the way of - rather than revealed - the characters' idiosyncrasies.   The character stuff is entertaining, but as I said, there are too many of them, and if a film is intent on capturing my attention for two and a half hours then it must act as if the tension is integral to developments, rather than merely being an insubstantial in-joke for the audience's amusement.If you like character studies then I think you'll find the murder gets in the way, and if you like murder mysteries then much of the interaction only serves to confuse rather than inform.  It's an ambitious undertaking, and by no means a totally worthless experience, but despite the best efforts of the performers involved, there's really not a whole lot here to get worked up about. "},{"Title":"Flawed, But Good Overall.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Complicated and admittedly sometimes dull comedy-drama that places a group of high-class aristocrats in one large English mansion in 1932. Naturally one of them (Michael Gambon) ends up dead and the list of suspects not only includes the other aristocrats, but also the servants and several direct from Hollywood. Julian Fellowes' amazing Oscar-winning original screenplay saves this film on more than one occasion as he connects all the major and minor characters with quirky situations and extremely witty dialogue. Robert Altman (Oscar-nominated for directing) does some of his best work as he keeps everything interesting and intriguing with smart, but imperfect pacing. Oscar nominations for Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren and top-flight performances by Ryan Phillippe, Emily Watson, Kristin Scott Thomas and Bob Balaban are key factors that keep Gosford Park above water. The film is not bad at all, but several other films probably deserved the final Best Picture nomination in 2001. This is definitely the weakest link of the five films honored with nods. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Too Much of Everything","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a film that is meticulously set, and cast with excellent actors - too many actors.  In the opening quarter hour or so of this film, I had a terrible time trying to understand the dialogue, and so when this seeming cast of thousands was all in place, I had no idea who any of these people were.  Visually, the film is just about perfect.  From every other standpoint, it falls flat.  I love Helen Mirren and Alan Bates.  It's a shame that they did not have more to do.  I also enjoy Maggie Smith, but I am getting so tired of her playing the witty old bitch.  The pacing of the film is abysmally slow, but I expect that to some degree in period films.  The odd thing about this film was that it was not enough for director Robert Altman to have accurate set and art direction, he also had to impress upon you the fact that you were looking at excellent period detail with camera work that was self-indulgent, to say the least.By the time the film was over, I could have cared less about who did what to whom.  That's a pity considering the talented people involved in this production.If you go to see this movie, bring a hearing aid for the first scenes.  Having a British friend accompany you might also be a good idea, for translation purposes.  "},{"Title":"Wow!  What a blow-fest!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie the other night and it stank.  I paid expecting to see a humorous murder mystery, at most i chuckled twice.  About twenty minutes into it you can tell it wouldn't be humorous, so i thought maybe the murder mystery will be interesting, it's not.  The mystery failed in that it takes almost an hour and a half to set up the motives of the characters to kill the guy.  The characters were even worse though!  The characters are not unique whatsoever.  Most of the time you can't tell the difference between two of the upstairs-ers.  It leaves the viewer constantly asking, who is that? Why would s/he have killed him?  The conclusion to the movie falls in it's conclusion.  I can't say much without ruining the plot, but I'll just say the ending is weak.  And finally the sound is an atrocity!  The British accents make understanding them a little difficult anyway, but the sound muddles up all the words so you can't even hear them. All in all, it wasn't worth it, but it'll probably win six or ten Oscars so what do I know? "},{"Title":"In the Hands of a Master","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman is at the very top of his form in the scintillating Gosford Park, and he's working with a dream cast, all of whom, down to the bittiest bit player, have wonderful material to work with and who do it complete justice. The Altman work this has the closest affinity with is A Wedding, a strong but messy film during which you feel that a number of sub-plots and minor characters have been largely lost in the cutting room. No such problem here. The mastery of the director is everywhere evident, and the screenplay by Julian Fellowes, based on an idea by Altman and Bob Balaban, provides a rock-solid structure. Clearly there are several genres and influences in play in Gosford Park the Agatha Christie-style murder mystery, shading ever so slightly into Clue-land; the Jean Renoir country weekend in The Rules of the Game; the classic British television series Upstairs Downstairs (this last debt is underlined by the fact that the Gosford Park cast includes Meg Wynn Owen, who played Hazel in Upstairs Downstairs, and Eileen Atkins, who co-created the series with Jean Marsh). The cinematic style is utterly fluid, and the rooms and halls of the great house (an actual noble estate) are as palpable to us as if we were guests.There are too many fine actors in Gosford Park to single out all of them, although one must mention the foxiness of Clive Owen (headed toward major stardom, believe me); the gravity of Helen Mirren; the inevitable perfection of Maggie Smith in a role that seems tailored for her; the brittle aristocracy of Kristin Scott Thomas; the severity of Charles Dance; the furtive appeal of Ryan Philippe; the solid masculine charm of Jeremy Northam (and who knew he could sing?); the skunkiness of James Wilby; the hauteur of Richard E. Grant; the moral centeredness of Kelly Macdonald; the goofy ineptitude of Stephen Fry; the seen-it-all knowingness of Emily Watson; the nasty lordliness of Michael Gambon; the cracks-in-the-facade of Alan Bates. But everyone has scenes to remember (such as Tom Hollander's and Sophie Thompson's exchange over a pot of jam). This is a marvelous film that will amply repay subsequent viewings. "},{"Title":"YAWN!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Visually stunning but slow, dull, unsurprising and uninspiring! This movie does for whodunnits what JAWS did for beach holidays! If it's a glimpse of the English class system you want, watch Remains Of The Day or Upstairs Downstairs. If it's a good whodunnit you want,  revisit the genius of Miss Agatha Christie. She can intrigue and surprise an audience. In this movie, Mr Altman can't!  "},{"Title":"NOT Altman At His Finest!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How truly disappointing to see critics fall all over themselves, lavishing accolades upon a film that's a mere piffle, at best.  May I start by saying that I am a HUGE fan of Robert Altman's ensemble tapestries!  Though his overall prolific output has careened wildly over the past 30 years -- with more pits than cherries I might add; although those cherries are just about the sweetest one could ever hope for! (Nashville, Short Cuts, 3 Women, A Wedding, The Player, to name a few) -- the 90's brought about a revitalized creative energy from the great American director, after the downward spiral of his 80's output.  Granted, the 90's brought about a fair number of misses (Kansas City, Pret A Porter, Dr. T. and The Women), as well.  However, the heights reached by Short Cuts and The Player dwarf like a Mt. Olympus over those earnest and worthy, yet disjointed and disengaging efforts.  I eagerly awaited Mr. Altman's latest, Gosford Park, since reading Variety's Todd McCarthy's rave a few months ago. Subsequent and further reviews were also laudatory!  (In hindsight, to the point of obsequiousness!)  A half-hour into the film, seated in a packed theater with a noticeably inaudible audience, a friend nudged me with his elbow and whispered, Am I supposed to be laughing here?  (It became a running joke for the next two hours.)  Much like the impression I had after my first visit to London to witness the starry hullabaloo of the West End theatrical scene -- seven highly-acclaimed plays, in seven cramped to dilapidated theaters, in a whirlwind four days -- my posterior felt numb and I couldn't help but feel that the critics must've seen a different version than the one I just witnessed.  (At least in the live theater outings, the plays came with intermissions and a bar.)  Gosford Park (sans intermission and spirits) was a complete and utter bore -- much like the boars that inhabited the film's wafer-thin scenario!  How arbitrary and lame was that whole third-rate Agatha Christie-like thread!  Oh, you might say, Ahhh, but the acting!  Like the world-weary upstairs characters, I was unimpressed by what can best be described as competent -- retreads of far superior characters in far superior stories/films.  Yes, those English actors sure have their bored airs down pat!  Gosford Park, my fellow filmgoers, is ultimately an expensive-looking, high-minded (read snooty), far-less amusing, far-less intriguing version of any number of Agatha Christie filmed novels, including sorely underappreciated Murder Under The Sun.  If someone says that I'm missing the point, that the film is more a study of the classes and less about the murder and subsequent investigation, then I reply by saying  Give me original characters worth studying! Give me original characters that I can care about!  Give me ANYTHING original! Murder By Death anyone??? "},{"Title":"Altman Proves that an American","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman proves that an American CAN make a boring English film.Altman has made some good films some great films and some reallyMediocre films and Gosford Park is  one of the latter. It is beautifully photographed and he has a great cast but the story is long, tedious and the whole thing is ungodly pretentious. I couldn't wait to leave the theatre.  "},{"Title":"Oh dear. Oh dear, dear, dear........Dull!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Slow-moving unimaginative pap! Hard to believe Mr Altman wanted his name anywhere near this dull tripe. I'd been warned it started slowly, but how! The first 110mins is tedium in extremis, but, they remainder excels this in being tedium incarnate. Save your money, sit in your garden and watch the grass grow. It's just as entertaining and it's free. "},{"Title":"The Academy of the Over-rated The Lifetime Underachievement Award Goes to...","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman...Who else should receive this award?I loathe Altman's films.Admittedly I haven't seen many of them, this is the fifth following MASH, The Long Goodbye, Popeye and The Player but this list includes some of his most acclaimed films (with the exception of Popeye which everyone hates).MASH, by far the best of the five but still little more than mediocre, is supposed to be a tale of man's determination in the face of war and the suffering and death that goes with it. In actual fact it is the tale of a group of men larking about, playing pranks upon each other without ever threatening to be funny.In The Long Goodbye Altman thought it would be a great idea to transform Philip Marlowe from a wisecracking, smart-arse, world-weary detective into a lazy, uncouth tramp played by the woefully miscast Elliott Gould.Popeye is universally recognised as being terrible.The Player is seen as a witty, incisive yet cynical view of Hollywood to this viewer it was nothing more than a long protracted bore.Which brings us onto Gosford Park...Again we see Altman indulging in his belief that having a variety of characters all talking at once so you can't hear a word is art.But this is Robert Altman we are talking about here, the man who deflects criticism of his films by stating with astonishing arrogance that they are all marvellous, a director who clearly does not know art from his elbow.This alone (if you are generous enough to forget the poor quality of his films) should make it obvious that he is no great amongst the cinema world. How many of the truly great filmmakers often felt dissatisfied with their work always feeling that there was at least one aspect that should have been improved upon? The answer is the vast majority of them if not all as it was this along with their talent that enabled them to consistently produce work of such a high order.In the documentary about the making of this film he talks about what a maverick he is. Often he would do a scene and feel totally satisfied with the result and prepare to move on only to be reminded by the script girl that key elements of the scene have been completed missed out. To approach a scene in this manner with total disregard for its content is sheer stupidity. Either this is the truth and he is a fool or it is another feeble attempt to fuel the insane belief that he is one of the last great mavericks.Nonetheless I looked forward to seeing Gosford Park on the strength of its reviews remembering that many of these critics often ridicule his other films so I felt that they were not among the morons that praise Altman's work simply because his name appears in the credits.What started as an intriguing opening with the impression of a real event about to unfold simply went on... and on... AND ON...For an hour, yes AN HOUR, Altman 'set the scene', focussing on one unattractive character after another involved in utterly banal actions that were of no interest and of no relevance to the story. He just wanted us to get to know everyone.How nice.Then it happened, the murder.This was the cue for a whole string of revelations about most of the cast (surely so many in such a short space of time is far too much of a coincidence) that yet again were of no relevance at all. Some servant was actually an actor preparing for a role (who cares?). The butler (played by the once great Alan Bates who sadly stopped acting after 'A Day in the Death of Joe Egg' and decided to devote his talent to playing dotty Englishman) having been a conscientious objector years earlier.These are all items aimed at maintaining the interest in a film that could quite easily have been cut down to an hour and nothing would have appeared to be missing.Then we find out who the murderer might be and its over. The credits role.A terrible film.I saw Gosford Park a few months ago but was only moved to write about it when I saw earlier today that the latest version of the Halliwell Film Guide made it the first film for two years to get the maximum four star rating.Astonishing.The first film since another criminally over rated flick American Beauty to be hailed as a milestone in cinema history.Arguably the most accurate and reliable film guide is becoming far too lenient whilst Robert Altman is riding the crest of a wave.What a sad time it is.This truly abominable film and the accompanying documentary confirmed my view of Altman as one of the worst filmmakers and one of the most conceited men associated with cinema.The man is getting on in years, thankfully he won't be able to do many more films but the next time he makes a film that attracts the attention that Gosford Park did I fear there is a real chance of him being given the Oscar for it.The Academy will say amongst themselves 'Lets give him the award, he's going to die soon'There is only one Academy where Altman's films should be sweeping the board. "}{"Title":"A whodonit a la Altman","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman proves with this film his ability to bring to the screen all the characters in the film, have them interact with one another and maintain our interest in all what's going on, at the same time. Not only does this film has a great script, but it includes virtuoso acting by his English cast. And what cast it is!The visual style of this film is awesome. We feel as though we're intruding on the guests assembled for a weekend in Gosford Park in the England of the 30s. The Altman technique of having characters talk at the same time works very well here. We're like eavesdroppers to all the conversations taking place in the different rooms. We can peek at how the upper classes behave in their natural habitat, as well as how the servants revolve around theirs.There is not a false note in this film. It involves us thoroughly, as is the case with other Altman pictures. We're afraid not to pay attention, thus missing a bit of dialogue. We are like eavesdroppers on the other side of the screen savoring the antics of the rich and famous.Maggie Smith is brilliant as the impoverish noblewoman that is going through bad times. Michael Gambon strikes the right note with his portrayal of the head of Gosford Park, as does Kristin Scott-Thomas, as his wife.It was very good to see Alan Bates as the butler. Helen Mirren is incredible as the head of the staff, always in the background, in her thankless job. What a pleasure to see Kelly McDonald, Clive Owens, Derek Jacobi, Eileen Atkins and Emily Watson. They are the devoted servants who keep this household going. All in all, this was one of the best films that came out at the end of 2001, a year that didn't seem to have many interesting films for adults and fans of intelligent moviemaking. Thank you, Mr. Altman! "},{"Title":"Mucho do about nothing","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Gosford Park (2001) has a great script, great actors doing great job, very well direction, cinematography, set design. The thing that i didn't like (well, not as much as previous aspects) was the story itself. It's kinda boring if you ask me. The pacing of this movie is very good, at running time of 2 h 14 min it drags only because of the story, but what's the most surprising script is great - dialogs are very well written and it's interesting to watch conversations by different characters (and we have A LOT of them in Gosford Park), but then again, story itself isn't that good as the script, it's drama with some mystery, and although i figure it out who was guilty, it's really not about whodunnit.Overall, Gosford Park is drama with very engaging script (Oscar award), great acting, good pacing but the story suffers in my opinion. Mucho do about nothing if you ask me. Worth seeing once. "},{"Title":"Agatha Christie meets Downton Abbey","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Agatha Christie meets Downton Abbey and takes a god-awfully long time to transpire. In retrospect, this was a trial run for Julian Fellowes, to create Downton Abbey. We see the clash between nouveau riche and aristocracy, Americans disdained by the British, a very UNsympathetic lord of the house (as opposed to Hugh Bonneville's mostly good-guy), mouthy Maggie Smith yet to show any softer sides, the proud downstairs hierarchy with transient alliances plus one tender romance, a servant-on-servant assault, one beady-eyed, suspicion-provoking footman (Richard Grant becomes Rob James-Collier)...So much harder to care about these characters than those in Downton Abbey. Robert Altman's aim was off, Julian Fellowes corrected beautifully. "},{"Title":"Terriic - one word","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Violence, mystery, sex, and murder, Gosford Park has it all. Director Robert Altman once again takes the Hollywood formula and gives a unique twist. The story begins when aristocrats during 1932 gather at Sir William McCordle's (Michael Gambon) estate for a shooting party. The guests are wealthy people with their trusty servants. People arrive at the McCordle estate two by two and the traditions begin. The servants set up dinner for their masters and the aristocrats begin their personal routines.The story moves on as the characters begin to establish their names and the audience learns their varying social status. The intertwining stories among the guests begin to surface and the audience begins to realize there is much more in this house than what meets the eye.During the night one member of the elite group is killed. None of the guests seemed to be fazed by this event and are only upset by the inconvenience it sets up for their lives.The only one troubled is Constance, Countess of Trentham's maid, Mary (Kelly McDonald). The story begins to focus on Mary, who discovers secrets among the visitors and leads the audience to solve the mystery.The great aspect about this film is Robert Altman's abilities to bring the past to life. He pays excellent attention to detail and is able to recreate the feelings and morals during the time period. He emerges the audience into a film world filled with history and story. Throughout the film Altman visually shows the audience the contrast between social classes through his various shots, lighting techniques, and camera filters. His fluid camera movements visually portray foreshadowing and relationship among characters. These elements give the audience a complete understanding of the mood and atmosphere in the film.I recommend this movie to anybody who has the patience to sit and focus on this excellent film. Although the beginning is appropriately slow moving and the characters names are difficult to remember, the payoff is worth the efforts. This movie is made for active film viewers and all Robert Altman fans. "},{"Title":"This handsome whodunit-cum-comedy of manners marks a return to form for maverick filmmaker Robert Altman.","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" An assortment of guests and servants at a country house in the 1930s come under suspicion when their host is murdered.Gosford Park is a sparkling upstairs-downstairs ensemble piece, a return to director Robert Altman's observational best, with the bon mots flying back and forth irresistibly from an astounding British cast; the routine murder-mystery plot is little more than an excuse to round them all up. The film was very well-received by critics and received a number of major film awards. Its cinematography was a focus of several critics, and it was placed at 82 on Slant Magazine's list of best films of the 2000s. "},{"Title":"A classic whodunit.","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" We have seen many murder mysteries. But it's rare when one is nominated for an Oscar. That's why Robert Altman's Gosford Park is a rare film to find. Not only is Robert Altman's film a murder/mystery, it's a drama. Gosford Park is a very entertaining film. Clocking in at over two hours, it's a good time waster. But really I don't mean that in a bad way. I mean it's two and a half hours definitely well spent.Gosford park is about a group of celebrities, a bunch of maids, valets, and other people who are staying at a mansion for a dinner party. All goes kind of well until Michael Gambon's character is murdered.One of the main things that makes Gosford Park so good is the cast. Every single actor in this film is terrific. All of the characters, if not lovable, are likable. Bob Balaban, who came up with the idea, is funny, Maggie Smith does a wonderful job at playing a bitch, Kelly McDonald is sweet as she always is, Clive Owen is terrific, so is Hellen Mirren and Kirsten Scott Thomas, and everyone else. Everyone is so good in it, and the film is incredibly entertaining and powerful. This is my favorite of Robert Altman's films. Gosford Park A+ "},{"Title":"Near perfect panoramic study of a Society where almost everyone has an agenda","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am ashamed to admit that this is my first experience with the direction of Robert Altman. I was not disappointed here. I do believe however, that had this story focused on a bunch of American Anglo-Saxons of similar social standing, it may not have fared as well. English Actors often have a depth of training sorely lacking here. I see them less about maintaining Star status as they are about rolling up their sleeves and getting the canvas painted so that the story can be told. Although we know that the casting involved a Who's Who of British Stage and Film, all the assorted aristocratic characterizations (as well as the portrayals of the seemingly invisible staff that facilitate that gentility) are dead-on.... This film is a must see, and I am struck by the realism here. Altman has accurately conveyed the claustrophobia and dearth of genuine affection in this very ordered world of people for whom jockeying for position and maintaining that position is everything. Although food is plentiful in the Society of those above stairs, when it comes to authentic love, there isn't a morsel to be shared "},{"Title":"Altman's murder mystery version of Upstairs, Downstairs","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have watched this film several times trying to keep up with the action. There is one murder and 41 suspects! I eventually had to go to IMDb to get the character list to try to keep up with who is who, upstairs and downstairs, with an attempt to keep track of who had a motive. After several attempts, I decided that it would be a fun parlor game to provide guests a list of characters and try to keep track of individuals' motives and try to guess who did it. It would be a very few number of people who would have enough interest in film and mysteries to actually do it. Most viewers would throw up their hands in frustration and wait for the end of the film and find out who did it. The most striking thing to me about the film is the strict British adherence to etiquette and class distinctions. The prejudicial response to the US guest and his valet, especially by Maggie Smith's character, is amusing. But it is the disrespect and abuse by the upstairs guests to the downstairs servants that makes the film so confusing. But, when the film is over, you have a greater appreciation for the British adherence to etiquette and class distinction. One can only hope that in the 21st century that this period piece will show a past status quo that has changed for the better. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film with great potential, but it needs to be recut","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw Gosford Park for the first time last night and was immediately impressed with many of the films elements the set design and costumes were excellent and did the job of immersing me in the setting of the house and of the time the film is set. The acting, featuring one of the widest range of British talent that I have ever seen, was largely excellent and felt very real. The film is well written, and provides story arcs for all characters, major and minor.My problem with this film is that two hours is not nearly long enough to wrap up all of the plot elements in a good way. The ending seems rushed and does not provide closure for me. I cannot believe that this is the way that an obviously very talented director like Altman would have wanted to wrap up his film, so I would be very interested to see whether he will recut the film in years to come. "},{"Title":"Downstairs, Upstairs","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman's Gosford Park is not a whodunit murder mystery - so, don't even try. A second viewing is recommended, but you probably won't be looking for any missed clues. You will also go crazy if you try to keep track the (too) many characters without a scorecard; it's close to impossible, and ultimately distracting. The real story isn't who murdered the victim, but watching Mr. Altman gather a bunch of Great British (in the broadest sense) actors together, to define the word haughty. Let subtleties fly.Upstairs, Maggie Smith (Constance Trentham) goes to the head of the class, delivering writer Julian Fellowes' lines with relish. I haven't a snobbish bone in my body, she asserts. Downstairs, Helen Mirren (as Jane Wilson) dominates a tight ship; coming from behind, her character makes the definitive plot points. Ryan Philippe (as Henry Denton) sticks out like a sore thumb, which winds up being perfect, actually; he plays on both teams. Kelly Macdonald (as Mary Maceachran) emerges as the quiet guide.Altman is a motion picture Rembrandt. Everyone is outstanding.********* Gosford Park (11/7/01) Robert Altman ~ Kelly Macdonald, Ryan Phillippe, Maggie Smith, Helen Mirren "}{"Title":"Great script wonderfully played, a great cast perfectly directed","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had heard a lot about 'Gosford Park', that's why I waited so long to get and enjoy it. And did I ever? The movie is based on the exceptional writing of Julian Fellowes and tells the story of some aristocratic wealthy people and their servants in the late fall of 1932. But through the directing of Robert Altman, we come to see, witness and understand much more.Fist of all, we witness the immense difference between the guests, some aristocrats and snobs and others, servants. This difference is underlined by the 'Upstairs' (where the guests sleep) and 'Downstairs' (where the staff and servants sleep, eat and work). We also sense the difference by the clothing, the manners and the snobbish behavior.Second of all, the movie is that incredible, that we witness the grand manner in which wealthy people lived in those days, the way they interacted with their help and we notice that so few things have actually changed through the ages.Britain's finest and a few Hollywood actors had been perfectly casted for this portrait of a decaying Empire, its traditions (which the British are very fond of) and of the always-hunting-for-some-fresh-meat-Hollywood. Because of the brilliant cast, the plot becomes secondary and we are being portrayed a wonderful and apparently boring, typically English, weekend. Rarely have I seen actors master the art of acting so good, that even the boredom of the characters is played perfectly.Robert Altman managed to built an eternal antithesis in this movie, may it be the wealthy vs. the poor people, servant/staff vs. master, 'downstairs' vs. 'upstairs', the British vs. the Americans (He's from America. They do things differently there), the calm and apparently boring English man vs. the ever vibrant American, London vs. countryside and even London vs. Hollywood.I highly recommend this movie the anyone and everybody who enjoys acting of the finest art, a craftsmanship performed by some very talented actors. "},{"Title":"Country House Mystery with a 24 carat gold cast.","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've always regarded the American filmmaker Robert Altman as a terribly overrated director. Even a film like MASH is inferior to the TV show and NASHVILLE becomes tedious in its third hour, whilst POPEYE is painful to sit through.GOSFORD PARK - his only British-made film - works because of a tip-top script by the English actor Julian Fellows and a waterproof cast of British thesps. It won the 2001 Oscar for Best Original Screenplay and the BAFTA for Best British Film, and it's about all of those things that often fill films about England's past class, period costumes and country houses. In fact, at times it feels like a retread of Alan Bridges' little-seen 1985 costume drama THE SHOOTING PARTY in which the English upper classes congregate in a stately home for a bit of symbolic pheasant shooting on the eve of the Great War. Gosford Park isn't a real house - the film was shot at three different stately homes in the south of England and at Shepperton Studios in London.Fellows script nicely observes what a country house weekend in November 1932 must have been like the way servants are referred to by their employers' names, for instance. The tremendous cast of Equity's finest has upstairs Michael Gambon, Kristen Scott Thomas. Maggie Smith, James Wilby, Charles Dance and Jeremy Northam (as Ivor Novello), and below stairs there's Helen Mirren, Eileen Atkins, Alan Bates, Clive Owen, Richard E. Grant, Derek Jacobi, Emily Mortimer and Kelly McDonald. I'm sure had she not been playing Iris Murdoch at the time, a role would have been found for Judi Dench. And when the Lord of the Manor Michael Gambon is bumped off two thirds of the way through, up turns a pipe-smoking and raincoat wearing police inspector, played for comic effect by Stephen Fry. The film is loosely structured and full of fractured dialogue and half-observed and half-resolved sub-plots. There's also a couple of Americans who feel surplus to requirements, including Ryan Phillipe as a Hollywood actor posing as a Scottish valet, Henry. It has one or two lovely little moments, such as the staff standing in a doorway listening to Ivor Novello play and sing on the piano; or Kelly MacDonald's Ladysmaid, who stays up all night to wash her Ladyship's blouse, only for her Ladyship (Smith) decide the next morning she's not going to wear it. Watch closely a gem of a scene when Richard E Grant as a butler 'accidentally' drops hot coffee into the unpleasant Henry's lap - the giggling and smirking delight on the various guests' faces is a joy to behold. Sir William ends up having been killed by his illegitimate son (Owen) and his housekeeper (Mirren), whom years ago he had gotten pregnant when she worked in one of his factories - as he did with many of his employees. In fact, it's actually no more substantial than a couple of episodes of the 1970s TV series 'UPSTAIRS DOWNSTAIRS' (no bad thing considering the undeniable quality of that programme), only with a faster pace and a 24 carat gold cast. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Non-Linear WhoDunIt Altman Style -- Sort of MASH meets Agatha Christie, but may not be for typical mystery buffs","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you're appetite is for a typical Agatha Christie murder mystery, it may be best to look elsewhere. As another reviewer pointed out, the whodunit aspect takes a back seat to the spontaneous interactions of the characters, which are split between the filthy rich and the hired help. The story is completely non-linear. The script is literally wall-to-wall character studies, with the players moving from scene-to-scene like real people moving from room-to-room. What they do and how they got to this place is revealed only incidentally, leaving the audience to speculate as to the characters' back stories. And there is plenty of overlapping dialog to add to the ambiguity. It feels more like the viewer is spying on these people rather than watching a typical movie presentation.In true Altman style, two dozen characters are thrust together by way of a holiday weekend at a large English manor. The aristocrats are very busy, dressing, gossiping and shooting harmless birds by day, eating luxurious meals, playing games, and enjoying entertainment from a Hollywood movie star by night. They probably need some relaxation from all that work. All the while the servants are preparing food, washing clothes needlessly at night, and polishing their employers' watches with barely a moment to enjoy a meal or other extra-curricular activity themselves. But the servants and aristocracy share something in common they all have their own little stories which are revealed in bits and pieces through unselfconscious dialog.Both sides enjoy equal screen time. However, as the events progress, the viewer realizes that the hired help is not viewed in quite the same way as their aristocratic counterparts. Even from the beginning, when two of the upper-class characters are squabbling about their problems, one of the servants overhears their discourse. When one of the aristocrats realizes that eavesdropping is occurring, the reaction is rather unexpected, Don't worry, it's nobody. The servants don't really count as people, probably the prevailing view in 1930's England which had much of the same view of commoners as it had in the 16th and 17th centuries. And yet this attitude toward servants as lesser people has a profound impact on the quite unexpected ending of the film. One of the worst of the snobbish aristocrats is Countess Constance, played with perfect over-bearing stiltedness by the incomparable Maggie Smith. And of course she has one of the best lines I haven't a snobbish bone in my body. But of course she has her employee on bended knee throughout the film. You wonder if she may be a just target of the murderer's weapon! Later in the film, one of the servant characters moves up a few rungs on the hierarchical ladder literally overnight, much to the jealousy of the rest of the hired help.Part of what transpires seems very unscripted. Even by half-way through the film, the viewer only has a vague sense of who these people are. It is akin to certain science fiction films where aspects of futuristic life are presented without explanation. In Gosford Park, the stories of the characters are never announced but only hinted. Even by the moment of the murder, which occurs about 2/3rds through the story, the viewer is only beginning to understand some things about the characters, but much is left unsaid and unrevealed. One of the interesting features of the film is that the story is entirely cast-driven. The ensemble is made up of name talent, but no big Hollywood stars, which is quite a breath of fresh air from the typical star-driven offerings that Hollywood is constantly cranking out. Instead, the cast is comprised of recognizable character actors who are often in supporting roles in the larger-budgeted Hollywood films. These people are some of the best actors in the business. It's somehow fitting that they would come together for this project.One other notable aspect is that some of the best actors play the servant parts, such as Helen Mirren (academy award-winner) who plays Mrs Wilson, the head woman servant, the late Alan Bates (renowned British actor) as Mr Jennings, the head of all servants, and Derek Jacobi of Caedfel fame as Mr Probert, another butler/servant of the Lord's manor.An outstanding film, with an unexpected and sobering ending that forces you to think rather than feel fully satisfied in an escapist sort of way, like an Agatha Christie presentation might. This is a major achievement and a fitting swan song to one of the most innovative directors who worked in Hollywood, the late Robert Altman. Although this was not technically his last film, this was probably his last best achievement. Not to be missed if you're into cutting edge film-making particularly of the overlapping dialog variety. Altman wrote the textbooks on it, called MASH, The Player, and Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"Blimey!, it's the Yanks who hexed this one . . .","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" At first viewing, I thought it was presumptuous of Bob Altman to one-up his Brit peers on this scene, especially after all those PBS exposes of the upstairs/downstairs of it all. But, on second viewing, this time WITH captions for a hearing-challenged type, I finally realized that the Brits herein are as close to perfection as possible. How could they not be, with that lineup of thespians, stellar and bit? What I found offputting and mischievous were the Hollywood in-jokes about the Charlie Chan series, which never rose above B-minus status, either at the box office or in the inner sanctums of the anointed critical circuits of the day. From Warner Oland on, the Chan series were but a hop, step, or a jump beyond the likes of the Fu Msnchus, all of them irrelevant and unreal, as in Chu Chin Chow or Joseph Hergesheimer. That said, I must personally fault Altman for deliberately stepping on lines of dialog, even as the basic plot is more than threadbare and the cupboard of essence less than nourishing. But the acting is beyond cavil, up and down the stairs and in and out of bedrooms and staircases. What a roll call of wondrous British thespic talent. "},{"Title":"Recipe for Lasting Success","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Take an 'idea' by Bob Balaban and Robert Altman, transform that idea into a screenplay by Julian Fellowes, place Robert Altman in the director's chair, and gather many of the finest actors in England (and the USA), photograph it with Andrew Dunn as cinematographer, and assign the musical score to Patrick Doyle and presto! - out comes a bubbling movie that entertains on every level and makes a lot of statements about class distinction and other prejudices as well. GOSFORD PARK is a gem of a film and only grows better with repeated viewings.Gosford Park is the estate owned by grumpy William McCordle (Michael Gambon), his bored wife Sylvia (Kristen Scott Thomas), his frumpy daughter Isobel (Camilla Rutherford), and served by a staff of servants who include the very in control Mrs. Wilson (Helen Mirren), the butler Jennings (Alan Bates), and the head of the kitchen Mrs. Croft (Eileen Atkins). A weekend hunting party is underway and as the guests arrive the dichotomy between the wealthy and the serving class is emphasized. Among the odd assortment of guests (each with a pack of secrets and prejudices) are Maggie Smith, Tom Hollander, Charles Dance, Bob Balaban, Jeremy Northam, James Wilby, and their valets and servants Clive Owen, Kelly Macdonald, Ryan Phillippe, etc. The servants are incorporated into the staff rooms by the strange Emily Watson, Derek Jacobi, Jeremy Swift et al. The arrival evening drops a few hints of problems afoot both among the guests and among the servants. The hunting party is scarred by a minor accident, but the real problem occurs at the dinner following the hunting party - a time when some of the occult problems become more obvious and culminate in the murder of the vile William McCordle. The police are called and Inspector Thompson (Stephen Fry) uncovers some strange evidence that leads to not only the events of the murder but also unveils many of the secrets of both guests and servants. There is a surprise ending that somehow makes all of the characters seem more human than their artificial roles they have assumed.This is a banquet of fine acting and ensemble work and adds such treasures as a series of songs performed by Jeremy Northam with great style as well as unexpected cameos by a large number of lesser known actors. It is a fine mystery, Altman style, and is as frothy and refreshing as fine champagne! Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Upstairs Downstairs","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman's typical ensemble piece, which bears a strong resemblance to Renoir's La Regle du jeu, is more of an examination of the relationships within and the relationships between the aristocracy and those who served them between the world wars than it is a typical murder mystery. In fact, the film is more than half over before any crime is committed and, curiously, it is only after the murder of curmudgeonly womaniser William McCordle (Michael Gambon) that the film begins to lose its way a little.Like all of Altman's films, this isn't a film for the casual viewer, and those not prepared to pay attention will not last the pace. And it is a film that requires close attention due to the large cast. Some characters have few lines but they are all integral to the plot and, even when paying close attention, it can be a challenge to get a handle on who exactly is who - especially amongst the upper class characters. Other filmmakers may have chosen to combine two characters into one to simplify the storytelling process but, as always, Altman credits his audience with a degree of intelligence of which other filmmakers are not always so confident.Perhaps the only real flaw for my money is the character of Inspector Thompson (Stephen Fry), who is played for a comic relief which doesn't really match the tone of what has gone before. The inclusion of Ryan Philippe's character, the American actor Henry Denton who poses as a butler for research purposes on a Charlie Chan film, is also questionable useful as an instrument for placing important information in front of the viewer, he sticks out like a sore thumb in the upstairs-downstairs milieu, even when using a Scottish accent.Overall, Gosford Park is deserving of the reputation it has won for itself and is recommended viewing for those looking for an intelligent story told at a measured pace. "},{"Title":"A vicious and thrilling social criticism of British aristocracy","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well played and pleasant but absolutely sinister. D.H Lawrence's Lady Chatterley's Lover in reverse. Lady Chatterley is in fact a Lord. And everything is different. The Lord has the right to have as many affairs with the female servants as he wants. He has the right to have as many children with these female servants as he wants and then to have the babies abandoned and sent to orphanages. Absolutely disgusting. And what's more he may keep the servants for further use eventually. When we know that we know the murder of the Lord will be accepted by everyone in his own social class as justified, that they will cover it up for the police not to find out the murderer. And what's more they will have been backboneless enough not to murder him themselves and let the servants murder him. Here Robert Altman imagines a thriller that becomes a vicious denunciation of the deepest hypocrisy you can imagine, that of the British aristocracy. There is little to add to this tale, except that all in all only the servants have the human dignity that provides them with some human feelings, including for the son that has managed to survive and is condemned to remain officially unknown. It is also the servants who have the liking and taste for the Hollywood sentimental and sentimentalese songs that are sung for the entertainment of the ladies and gentlemen who treat that music as some charming accompaniment for their simmering hatred of the world and themselves. Of course Altman also manages to put one note against the Americans in the two characters from California, one having a typically non-Anglo-Saxon name, viz. Weissman. They are vicious enough to infiltrate the servant quarters just for the sake of a film on the very same situation, hence to guarantee the realism of the servants' side of the film. But they are also gross enough to reveal the subterfuge before the end and that reveals too how much the servants hate this indiscretion that reveals their side of ,the household to someone from the other side of the household. The gap between the two social classes that live along to one another in this mansion is wider than the distance between the earth and the moon.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Wow!  Made for multiple viewings...","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" How, oh how does he do it? The more Altman I consume, the less I understand his technique. It's almost mystical, his ability to extract certain performances and certain moments from his actors, and somehow keep perfect control over seeming spontaneity. I could only imagine his sets to be the most chaotic events, the camera is somehow everywhere at once while also being nowhere, but there is a containment of this wild energy at work that I totally fail to understand. That kind of feat is AWESOME, how the thread co-operates through this film from the first shot to the last, all the while maintaining the most spectacular production design and cinematography, elements that must have taken a lot of time to get right, but seem somehow effortless. I won't get much into the plot, but if you know Altman you'll know there are a lot of interlocking stories with a colorful cast of characters who might or might not be innocent and who might or might not be who they really seem to be. He was robbed on this one by Ron Howard and his dreck flick 'A Beautiful Mind' at the Oscars! "},{"Title":"Agatha Christi fans should not miss","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Robert Altman's version of what might have been a classic Christi murder mystery is set in 1932. A mixed bag of the British aristocracy and their servants come together in a lavish country home that even boasts a secret panel in the library. The potential victim is detestable and most of people present appear to have a good reason to kill him, although some of the motives are in the distant past. In Altman's version, the viewer actually sees the crime take place and Altman's detective is not omnipotent, like Hercule Poirot or Miss Jane Marple, but a complete twit. One of the maids finally figures out the mystery, but the last lines of the film suggest she'll never tell. "},{"Title":"Great setting and acting, poor story","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Agatha Christie would have been ashamed of a story this soapy and simplistic. What this film shows brilliantly is the way a big house like Gosford Park worked, who ran it and how. As the rich get richer, butler seems like a sensible career goal. We learn far more about the Downstairs crew than the Upstairs - I never worked out who was who, let alone who was married to whom. What did the fair bloke with the common wife have on the daughter of the house? Who was having relations with the kitchenmaid? Not one of the Upstairs crowd, I think - he was wearing a tail coat and must have been one of the footmen. The revelations about Lord McC's past in Isleworth are clunky to say the least. One thing we do find out these people may be rich, but they're not noble. Lord McC, it's hinted, is a war profiteer, and his guests talk business at the dinner table. Real toffs don't do that - they don't have jobs. As for the funny detectives - they just aren't, and they don't hack it as parody. "}{"Title":"lost some of the balance or...?","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" first,i would like to say that it was a good movie for sure!it was really rare to see any movie which could have that many roles appeared in the first 10 mins!and you couldn't even be able to tell that who is the leading role or not clearly!but well,then the problem came up also,really think that it was too much to tell about everyone in the movie,and it was just too soon for the movie to finish after the climax~but as the genre of this movie is drama,Crime,Comedy and Mystery,then i have to say that this movie was not really that outstanding!well,actually i said that was because that this movie was not really like a crime or a mystery movie which means that if you thought that this movie could bring you the excitement as what Death on the Nile has brought you,then you would be disappointed!actually before i saw this movie i really wished that it could have been like Death on the Nile or Evil Under the Sun,but after i finished it i just found that it was really better to be called as a Drama!but even to suppose it as a drama,then there is still the weakness for it which is that because that there were too many roles in the movie,then the time for each of them to appear in the scenes had to be limited,though i could see that the director just tried the best to have almost all of them in every scene to make the whole movie not be apart,but still it has given a lot of limitation to the performances of the actors!and also it could still confuse the audiences about the identities and the relationships of each of them!but maybe that the main purpose of the director was just to show the things between these roles and the crime and the mystery were just like the tools to be used for helping him to express that purpose better.but that was just my guess,though it really looked like that!anyway,for the control of that many roles in one same movie by the director really had to be appreciated,but the balance of all the parts of the movie and the balance of the time for the roles to appear was not really well given enough! "},{"Title":"Even more enjoyable at second viewing, 4 years later","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Expecting the usual whodunit, I missed a lot watching Gosford Park in the cinema 4 years ago. Second viewing on DVD in the comfort of home allowed me to fully enjoy it for what it is - an ensemble social satire with a huge, superb cast sparkling with delights at every turn.The murder mystery has been deliberately rendered unsubtle, with obvious, loud advertising - the incident of the missing kitchen knife and intrusive close-up shots of the poison bottle. Nor are there ingenious twists &#150; you may not have guessed the murderers (mainly because there are too many suspects) but then you're not terribly surprised when you see the solution which is not given in the usual gather-everybody-around-for-the-grand-revelation manner. Interestingly, there is some similarity to Francois Ozon's 8 women (which DID proffer the solution in the said manner) in that in both cases, it's a young girl's keen observation that unlocks the key to the mystery.A whodunit Gosford Park definitely is not, but rather a social satire of the British Upstairs, downstairs phenomenon in-between the war years, with as an add-on the irritating impact of the New World, particularly Hollywood (the Countess doesn't bothered with telling the difference between a director and a producer).Masterful Robert Altman helms the direction of the almost astronomical permutation of relationships among the characters with amazing dexterity. Incidentally, he has been recognized in this year's Oscar with its special life achievement award. The introduction features the beat moment of the evening, with Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep giving a superlative demonstration of his trademark style &#150; the overlapping dialogue, which is seen in abundance in GP, as in many other Altman films.Not much more need be said other than sit back, and enjoy every little bit of the exquisite detail, and don't fall into the trap of looking for the usual whodunit here. Instead, I would like to use whatever space IMDb allows to take a look at what SOME (there are too many) of these great actors have been up to since GP.Maggie Smith, who rules every scene she appears in as Countess Constance, continued with a couple more installments in Harry Potter and also created in Keeping Mum (2005) a wickedly delicious character (Grace Hawkin) that makes you fall in love with murders.Michael Gambon (the hateful, murdered aristocrat), unlike Maggie Smith, got involved in the Harry Potter series only part-way through, taking over the role of Headmaster Dunbledore from Richard Harris upon whose unfortunate death after the first two installments. His most recent screen appearance is in an almost cameo role in the remake of The Omen (2006) as the man who possesses the secret and the tools to killing the Antichrist.Kristin Scott Thomas co-starred with Maggie Smith in the said Keeping mum, playing a much more human character than the icy cold wife of the murdered man in GP.Another top-notch British actress Helen Mirren (the taciturn head housekeeper with a dark secret) went on after GB to lead the cast in the acclaimed Calendar girls (2003).About Clive Owen (the valet who has a hidden past) I need not say much &#150; King Arthur, Closer, Sin City, Derailed, Inside Man.Jeremy Northam (the crooning American entertainer) played an important role in Possession (2002), of the romantic poet in the past segment of the parallel stories in that movie.Ryan Philippe's performance in the first half of GP is adequate, playing a professional actor impersonating a role of a valet. When the actor resumes his real identity in the second half, however, Philippe's wooden expression fails to convey the difference. The recent Oscar winning movie Crash (2005) gave Philippe a role better suited to him, - contemporary, a young police officer.Bob Babalan, co- creator and writer of GP and taking the role of the gay American movie director, was seen recently in a minor role in Capote (2005) which earned Philip Seymour Hoffman his overdue Oscar.Charles Dance (typical aristocrat Lord Stockbridge) appeared in Francois Ozon's (again) Swimming pool (2003) which is, unfortunately (for any male role in this movie), a movie on the psychological duel between the two women leads.Tom Hollander (Commander Anthony Meredith) was the clownish suitor Mr. Collins in the latest version of Pride and prejudice (2005) For Alan Bates (who is in charge of everything downstairs) who passed away in 2003, I can go nearly half a century back to Whistle down the wind (1961), in which he played the man, who was mistaken by Hayley Mill's character as Christ in the second coming.Playing the two key downstairs characters are Emily Watson and Kelly Macdonald. While the former starred in Punch-drunk love (2002), the latter had a minor role in Finding Neverland, playing the boy Peter Pan.And don't let me forget Stephen Fry (the sensibly low key inspector) who appeared recently in V for Vendetta (2005), playing an ill-fated mentor to Natalie Portman's character. "},{"Title":"Great movie until the bumbling detective routine.","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film is a meticulously crafted piece. Well acted and creating a wonderful illusion of life in an English country house. Then for me the illusion was suddenly shattered as Stephen Fry appears as the bumbling detective. Suddenly I was looking at television comedy and not the best. It was quite a shock. It is a considerable jump from the TV screen to acting on the big screen. Mr Fry did not manage it in this film and I think he brought it tumbling down with him. The character and script may not have helped and may have created a disjoint in the style of the film whoever played it. A great pity.Still worth watching though and possibly easier to accept when braced for the clumsy switch in style. "},{"Title":"Construction and execution","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman seems to be one of the best directors for big ensemble pieces like this. But this is not in the same category as Short Cuts. The overall construction is more intelligent, but the execution is not. First, we are literally thrown in the movie. Short scene after scene are meant to introduce us to the characters, but there are too many A human can only chunk about 7 unconnected elements, and as a connection is only made after half an hour or so, a lot of facts are missed on first viewing. Second, the resolution is woven into the story, but is only a very minor part of it. Although it is common in a mystery to give some facts that are useless and serve as a decoy, this is almost built out of unnecessary additions. Thus it is not only overlong with too many side notes, they become more irrelevant for the viewer during the movie. So in the last part we have the reverse of the beginning Almost everything is known; we can easily see what's important and what's not so it becomes somewhat boring.Still interesting are other ideas a movie-maker (also American) is thrown in to add a layer to the story. And his not too British servant (an American playing a Scot) as his observer. "},{"Title":"A sensitive and subtle study of the Britain in the nineteen thirties.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a remarkable film. Those who have described it as thin and boring have simply missed the point; probably because their senses have been dulled by SFX and obvious plots. Robert Altman has used his extraordinary insight to show the multi-layered dependency of the Edwardian English upper classes and their servants in the twilight of their existence. Not only is it a remarkable script, but it is brought to light by an array of the finest acting talents Britain can muster. Of course it takes an hour to bring in all the characters because that is what the film is about. The plots and sub plots are almost incidental to the interweaving of the relationships and the complex development of character, often in a single sentence or even word. Anyone who cannot but find this film fascinating is clearly illiterate as well as quite unable to appreciate the finer pints of film making and acting. "},{"Title":"Upstairs/ Downstairs goes to the Movies.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a really fine achievement by a brilliant cast of mostly British actors - the setting in the Gosford Park estate is brilliantly done with the indoor and exterior atmosphere caught quite magnificently. The cast is very large, and at just one viewing becomes a little hard to grasp all the intrigue, but my advice is to see it at least a second time and the real enjoyment will flow. The differences between the rich and the downstairs teams are well portrayed, and everything is extremely believable except for the utterings and actions of the Police Inspector who is made to look far too ridiculous to be real. The standouts are Helen Mirren and Alan Bates with some surprises from Jeremy Northam and Ryan Philippe, but the cast is so big and naming the excellent performances would be too long. However remember one viewing is probably not enough to capture the magic of Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"A movie that has recreated life in England in the 1930's in a very good way","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I can imagine that this movie isn't exactly to everybody's taste. Especially because it takes some time before it really gets to a decent pace and because it is set in a time period that only few people seem to be interested in. Nevertheless this is still an interesting movie that gives a good insight on how society in the period between the two world wars was organized in the UK (and in other European countries as well).In the beginning of the movie you'll only get to see the differences between the high society and their servants in the 1930's, but as the movie progresses, you'll see that the image of perfection and separation between the two classes wasn't always that clear. Even though Sir William McCordle lives like an aristocrat, with servants, hunting parties, dinner parties,... the man isn't really loved at all. He is in fact a wealthy industrialist who is only accepted by the family, the aristocracy and his 'friends' because of his money. And they are all prepared to go a long way to get it...Gosford Park is a complicated, but very interesting story that has been spiced up with murder, hate, love, deceit, romance, betrayal,... and that has become a very fine movie thanks to the good direction of Robert Altman. Not only has he been able to portray his characters in a very fine way, he has also managed to give the movie a feeling of authenticity. If you are interested in this time period and the people that lived then, than this movie is definitely something for you. If not, than I guess you better leave it alone, because you'll be very bored by it. Personally I liked it and that's why I give it a well deserved 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Upmarket Agatha Christie","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman's bravura take on the 1930s English country house murder is not all it seems. Starting as a study of class divisions, it soon slides its swift lens to the mutual dependent worlds of master and servant, slowly yet surely exposing the links that bind both seemingly disparate worlds. What's most engaging about Altman's approach is his fluid camera-work. There are so many nuances to be had in what we see that most require multiple viewings to decipher each. The rich tapestry of English actors is excellent to behold and brings the hitherto formulaic Agatha Christie to life but the slightly heavy-handed socio-political comment spoils it a bit; the rich are all too often portrayed as caricatures (with the exception of Maggie Smith's character); while the only American is baffled by such class divisions - not that class snobbery was ever an issue in 1930s America of course! I was disappointed I guessed the mystery ending well before the end. By creating mystery and revealing it at the end, the film falls into the genre it tried to subvert. "},{"Title":"Somewhat overrated","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman's Gosford Park received huge acclaim, and on paper it certainly sounds like a tasty concept &#150; a deconstruction of the English country-house mystery from the mind that subverted the western in McCabe & Mrs. Miller and the war movie in MASH (among others). Throw in a Who's Who of contemporary British actors and what can go wrong? Well, nothing exactly, but despite some good moments the film never fully lifts off.The main innovation, of course, is the focus on the downstairs segment of country-house society. It's an admirable attempt to give the servants more-than-equal time, for once, and it's not entirely surprising coming from this populist director. But what is surprising is how Altman, for once, does a little *too* much explaining, falling into the Merchant/Ivory trap of fetishizing the period. For instance, did you know that servants visiting country houses would be called by their employers' names? And did you know that latecomers to dinner would be sent a tray rather than being allowed to join the party? And did you know that this fork is for this and that fork is for that, etc., etc. These things may not have been dealt with much on screen before, but that doesn't exactly make them interesting cinema in themselves. The lapse in judgment is perhaps because Altman, for all the authentic Englishness of everything, knows that he's making a movie for Americans; he includes, for instance, an amused American character to goggle over everything, and even gives Helen Mirren the line Mr. Weissman's an American; they do things differently there. It's a rather cheap joke, but one guaranteed to get laughs on both sides of the Atlantic, if for different reasons.The film doesn't quite ignore its upper-class characters (we see a lot more begging from them than we are accustomed to seeing from rich people in the movies), but it's the point at which the two classes intersect &#150; in theory the most interesting part of society &#150; that the movie inexplicably shies away from. We know that masters and servants are having sex, for instance &#150; hell, the plot hinges on this fact. Why then are we not given the real-life exchanges between the characters that surround all these couplings? How do Elsie and Sir William talk to each other when they're alone, *really* alone, for instance? Her love for him is obviously genuine &#150; she sees something in him that no one else does, and essentially condemns herself to a life of irretrievable ruin by speaking up to defend him in the bosom of vipers. Why? It's the movie's most fascinating and immediate moment (and Richard E. Grant makes it even more so with his half-smile at its conclusion), but Altman doesn't follow up, and overall seems to be more interested in maintaining the bland British tone than in producing any real content.As for the performances, it's hard to find a really bad one, of course. Helen Mirren and Emily Watson, perhaps England's two greatest living actresses, are perfect, and make the material seem better than it is. Maggie Smith is nastier than usual perhaps, and looks terrible, but she's still funny, even if she's done the same thing better a hundred times before. Eileen Atkins, Kelly Macdonald, Grant, and many of the other servants distinguish themselves in tiny ways worth watching for. The one sour note is struck by Stephen Fry, but it's less that the performance is unlikable than it is that the character is badly written and unfunny.All in all, the movie is not a total failure. But it's essentially empty, and not nearly as much fun as it's been made out to be. It just doesn't have any more juice than the Agatha-Christie movie fantasies it's trying to unpack for us, and that can only come as a disappointment. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very satisfying, must be seen several times.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have only seen Gosford Park once so far, so I haven't seen all the nuances that the other positive comments have described, but I recommend this film to those who are prepared to take time to watch human behaviour in painstaking detail and Altman's brilliant technique in telling a story that is much more complex than it first appears. You will be rewarded if you pay attention. I am fond of costume dramas and I think it's great that this film will probably attract an audience used to seeing adaptations of Jane Austen (and it's like a modern take on her wit and perception of social customs) who will then get more than they bargained for.I particularly enjoyed Jeremy Northam's singing which came as a total surprise to me; it was excellent and added emotional impact to the movie. The cast were all excellent and the overall impression that the action below-stairs was more important than that above-stairs was emphasised by the detective in his attitude to the importance of the servants and his blundering failure to solve the crime (a crime which of course wasn't the point of the story). In fact, as one reviewer pointed out, the effectiveness of those on either side of the class system was mirrored in the relation between the detective and his constable (who did know what he was doing). The final revelations explain everything beautifully and have enormous impact emotionally. It's a masterpiece and the writer deserves great credit too - the dialogue is excellent.  "}{"Title":"'Upstairs Downstairs' goes art-house","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Basically an extended version of Upstairs Downstairs with art-house pretensions, Cliché clambers over cliché demanding our attention.Total soap opera fantasy. A cast of British and American actor-types does its best to convince us we're watching something intense and worthwhile-and fails.Most notable for the stomach turning acceptance speech by the Oscar winning writer. Incredibly this drivel won the Oscar for Best Screenplay ahead of Amelie, and Memento.2/10  "},{"Title":"This Truly Rocks","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Any movie with a truly awesome plot, a twist where two people want to kill one person and some of the greatest intrigue around, this is the movie to see. I cannot say more about how truly great this movie is and highly recommend it to anyone.The key to watching this movie though is to understand who is who and pick up the subtle hints throughout the movie. In order to get everything as well you have to watch it multiple times (and I'm not only talking twice).The movie is so realistic in a household of this kind of importance that the attention to detail is completely astounding. Just the way the cast acted made it absolutely that much better than possible. Everyone has to watch this movie, it is so good.  "},{"Title":"Less like a murder mystery it's more like a soap opera","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Typical setup. Rich guy invites other rich people to house for the weekend. Servants everywhere (I think there are 20 speaking roles and actual characters that are servants). Add in 20 some odd rich (upstairs) characters. There are more characters here that 10 soaps combined. I thought this was a murder mystery, The murder takes so long to happen I thought I was wrong and I was watching Remains of the Day again by mistake.Pros 1) The contrast of the upstairs rich folk and the downstairs servants and the culture and how they overlap and how people keep secrets (that goes both way too).Cons 1) It Drags on. 2) It's was really hard to understand a lot of the lines due to the strong English accents combined with actors that mumble a lot. 3) Very predictable. I feel asleep 3/4 of the way through. I woke up and had to rewind to catch up on some points, but I wish I had not and just kept sleeping. I rented it and I wish I hadn't. 6/10 (And that's only because it wasn't much to my taste. Others might like it. Production/Acting done well, but story dragged and too many characters). "},{"Title":"low key but interesting","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" While Robert Altman has always been a critical darling, I've found most of his films pretty mediocre, with the very, very occasional exception. I would consider Gosford Park to be one of those exceptions. It's a surprisingly well-mannered movie from Altman, less of the chaotic, improvised mess that so enamors the critics and annoys me, although as in almost every Altman movie I've seen it can be difficult to understand what people are saying sometimes (I always thought it was because he likes a lot of background noise in his movies, but Gosford is quiet and genteel so I think he just has a bad sound recordist (I thought it was just me until I saw another review here complaining about the same thing). But as I say, in spite of some murky sound this is nicely filmed (something about England apparently tames Altman's proclivity for the jittery camera and casual lighting) and quite reminiscent of Upstairs Downstairs, for those of you who were fans of that British series. While the PR people decided to market this as a murder mystery, the murder happens late in the proceedings and doesn't really have that much to do with the movie, so if you're looking for Agatha Christie you'll be disappointed. This is rather a look at the weird symbiotic relationship of servants and their employers. It's really more about the servants and how their lives go on; they know everything that goes on upstairs, while the upper class is fairly oblivious to pretty much everything.While the movie is a typical Altman ensemble piece, some performers stand out, most notably Maggie Smith, whose arrogant and intelligent grand dame is the most entertaining character of the bunch. Helen Mirren is also quite effective in a less flashy role. While it's a bit slow moving at times I quite enjoyed it, rating it 7/10. "},{"Title":"A poor man's version of THE MANOR","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park attempts to craft a classic period piece murder mystery. Many of the performances are superb, yet one can't help but compare it to another similar picture in the same genre. THE MANOR done a couple of years earlier is more unique, with a more interesting plot, over all better acting and casting and is without question, much more beautifully shot. I think Gosford Park is certainly worth seeing but the suspense level of this earlier film, THE MANOR is achieved more effortlessly and with much better results.Isabelle Lund  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off, we can dismiss the majority of the negative reviews of this movie here as there is an entire generation of brain dead gen-xers who need something to 'morph' or explode in the first five minutes, or else it's 'boring'.Good, I am so pleased that certain children find this movie boring. Great. Walking Tall awaits you.For those more well read(gasp!Reading?) or those intrigued by clever British stylings, this is the movie for you.  Altman does a superior job with this film.One of my favorite techniques employed by Robert Altman is that he doesn't spell everything out for the viewer.  Again this is why some people slag this film, their own intellectual laziness(or complete lack thereof) makes them feel like 'nothing is happening', etc.Again I am pleased.  Pleased to know that there are filmmakers like Altman who exist to bring the specific audience(not the jock brain 'general' audience) and gives the thinking-literate crowd a gem. "},{"Title":"Muddled Murder Mystery","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is Robert Altman's take on the classic whodunit.  But there were many rules he'd broken to tell this story.  For one thing, the whole story is told from the point of view of the servants.  For another, the murder isn't so interesting as the stories and scandals between the upper-crust residents and guests and their servants.  Much attention is given to the rigid rules of old English servitude.  There are standout performances by Kelly Macdonald as Mary Maceachran, a young Scottish maidservant, Ryan Philippe as Harry Denton, a Magritte-like character with a strange secret, and Stephen Fry as Inspector Thompson, the incompetent detective.  If you're into Merchant Ivory-style period pieces, and you can keep all the stories straight in this ensemble story, then Gosford Park is your cup of tea! "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've never been a great fan of Robert Altman's films, but I was drawn to this by the cast.In the trailer I saw, I thought that Stephen Fry's detective looked great, but I have to say that he was probably the weakest link in an an otherwise great film.  The broad comedy in his scenes seemed to me to be inferior to the subtle social satire and wit that infected the rest of the film.I was also rather surprised by being tremendously moved by Helen Mirren's final scene; up until then I had been enjoying the film on a rather cerebral and analytical level, but she just blew me away with her show of emotion.Lots of things to say about the film  first, what a fine actress Kelly McDonald is, despite her young years; the tremendous pleasure of watching actors like Alan Bates, Michael Gambon, Emily Watson (the real star of the movie for me) and Charles Dance; the fully realised setting which made you believe this is what it really was like to be a servant in the years before World War 2.And thank God for DVDs.  Far be it from me to question Robert Altman's judgement, but I thought that just about every deleted scene on the DVD merited inclusion in the final film; in fact, I think a couple of them are actually needed.This is where novels are better than films you can go for depth by including rather than brevity by editing.Still, a fine film, and one of the few that I would actually watch again. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It takes a lot for me to say that such-and-such a movie is one of my favorites.  This movie gets the nod.Many people hate this movie.  Many seem to think that it's intended to be an Agatha Christie-style mystery.  (It isn't.)  One commenter apparently thought that it was never made clear who committed the murder.  (It was.) Several people thought this movie had too many characters.  (Depends on your perspective, I suppose.)  Another commenter said that there was no character development in this movie.  My jaw dropped on that one. Character is what this movie is about.There's no question that it takes some effort to absorb the film;  you really need to see it at least two or three times.  And yes, the audio is deliberately filled many times with several simultaneous conversations, making all of them hard to follow.  But for me, the multitude of characters and constant, fast-paced conversations made this movie into something that transcended an ordinary movie.  I felt transported into the world the movie was creating.There are some weaknesses.  As much as I like Stephen Fry, his character was too cartoonish, and his entry into the film marks a turning point.  There are still plenty of good moments after the murder (including some featuring Fry), but they're fewer and far between.  The bit about the butler (played by the recently-deceased Alan Bates) being a conscientious objector during World War I also didn't work very well.  And Bob Balaban's character as the annoying Hollywood producer was also too heavy-handed.Counterbalancing this, and then some, are some strong (as in, hurricane-caliber) performances from Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott Thomas, Jeremy Northam, Helen Mirren, and others...but of course, most of all, Maggie Smith as the wonderfully snobbish and yet strangely likeable, frail old duchess.Equally charming are the sets.  I can't say that I know what an old English country house should look like, but this one looks impressive, authentic or not.  And I can't help but feel more comfortable downstairs with the servants than upstairs with the snobs.  The pacing and transitioning are frequently brilliant;  shots of the snobs relaxing after dinner that cut to shots of frantic cleanup work in the kitchen, for example.The music is another strong point.  We got the soundtrack for this movie, a rarity for us.  The songs sung by Northam alone are simply priceless.  Oh what I wouldn't give for a real, old-fashioned lounge with someone like him singing earthy, witty songs.  (My guess is that any cocktail party where Northam is a guest is instantly a hundred times more interesting.)It can be fairly said of this movie that it lacks a discernible plot.  Oh, things happen.  The guests arrive;  they have dinner the first evening; there's a shooting party the next day, with lunch in a rotunda;  dinner again that night;  the murder;  the investigation.  But it all happens at such a dreamy, langorous pace that it hardly seems like anything happens. If you like plot-driven movies, to the point where you can't stand a movie that isn't plot-heavy, then Gosford Park definitely is not for you.  But for me, this ties back to the point I made earlier about feeling drawn into another world.I saw Gosford Park nine or ten times in the theater.  I've seen it that many times again on DVD.  (The quality of the DVD is very good in my opinion.) I'll see it many more times in the future.  Let that be my final comment. "},{"Title":"a waste of top-class British talent","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you're a fan of mysteries, you'll predict the final surprise twist of this movie about fifteen minutes into the action. Did I say action? I meant the long, slow buildup that leads to the lethargic middle that leads to the dragging ending.There's a key difference between slow and boring; if Gosford Park had great character development and a great payoff, the buildup would be worth it. But it has a bog-standard mystery plot that pretends to be a fascinating dissection of Christie, but is in fact more like Christie on a very bad, really listless day. The social commentary all seems so predictable; the rich people are blind snobs, and the servants are both warmer and more observant. Big flippin' deal! That's the message of ALL these manor house mysteries, for the most part.Shame that such a great cast was wasted here. I know all these actors from my years of watching all things British - they're practically old friends! - but I could barely distinguish one character from another. There are too many people to keep straight, too many agendas, too many names - a frequent problem in the mystery genre, actually. Add to the formula an incompetent inspector and you've got a completely by-the-numbers story. The only innovative thing here is the positioning of the camera; the movie presents a series of continuously moving middle shots, which is a nice idea, but ultimately as boring as the storyline.Maybe it didn't help that I watched this movie in the company of the Shallowest Man in the Universe, who kept falling asleep, but in all honesty I was hard-pressed to stay awake myself. Incredibly disappointing. "}{"Title":"A mumbling masterpiece","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A fabulous film. Great acting, good story, brilliant design. Not normally the kind of film I'd go and see, but it was so good I couldn't help but be drawn in to its world. Surely the best-ever cinematic depiction of the upstairs-downstairs lives of an English country house.The only problem with it, and this was picked up on by several friends who saw it, was that it was often difficult to hear what the characters were saying. I don't know whether this was the fault of the sound guy on set, or the sound guy in post-production, or the tape makers, or the cinemas, but I do know it spoilt the film for a lot of people. "},{"Title":"Good Direction, Bad Story","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe I need to watch this movie again to actually enjoy it. I was bored out of my mind when I watched it. The story is supposed to be about how the servants lead more interesting lives than the masters. Well, they do. But their lives are still about as boring and not much funnier than mine. I thought this was going to be a murder mystery, but it really wasn't. The guy gets killed, and then in like the last 15 minutes of the movie, two people are like, yeah, I tried killing him. It was me. There isn't really any investigation at all. Clue, a comedy movie, had more focus on the mystery than Gosford Park did. I wanted to fall asleep. Maybe it's just because they're all British, and I'm an uncouth Yank, but I couldn't tell any of the servants apart.Then I noticed an amazing camera movement. Well, not necessarily in the vein of the cinematography of, say, Amelie, but in keeping a flow going. The camera is following some people, and then instead of just a boring cut to other people, the first couple walks through a door as another pair come through it, and then the camera changes it's focus. Very effective, very stage like.It's too bad that such a good directing style was wasted on such a boring story. "},{"Title":"confusing, but still good","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be one of the most confusing movies I've ever seen.  I've seen it four times now, and there are still relationships and little things I'm unclear about.  It took me two viewings to figure out whodunit.  Still, it's downright enchanting.  It plays up the period really well with costumes and scenery and attitudes.  This picture made me fall in love with the acting talents of Maggie Smith, who was the comic relief in a rather grim film.  The rest of the cast, some of the finest British actors of today, are wonderful as well, though I could have done without so much of Ryan Phillipe.  It was well-written in addition to being well-acted, and the fact that I keep watching it to try to unravel it's unending layers tells me that it's well worth my time. "},{"Title":"Very well constructed, but overlong.","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  GOSFORD PARK (2001)THE GOOD--Conducting a giant cast at 77 years old, Robert Altman's direction here is near flawless. He executes the film very well and makes it feel like an Agatha Christie novel come alive in a stylish, intriguing manner.--The aforementioned giant cast of the film dazzles. Ryan Phillippe gives his first adult performance very well, putting on a believable accent and making his character very charming. Emily Watson is terrific as usual. Kelly MacDonald, the anchor of the film, is wonderful and gives a very underrated performance. Academy Award nominations went to the fairly good Helen Mirren and very funny Maggie Smith. Credit must also be given to Stephen Fry (a neat character in the film), Bob Balaban, Michael Gambon and the various other cast members.--Now that I think about it more, the main quality of the film is the way it manages to cleverly show the audience the way the house is run - separating servant from leisure man/woman, rich from poor, rags to riches. Very neat factor in the film.--I loved the setting for the film. It gave it even more of an Agatha Christie feeling, and really made the whodunit story more atmospheric. The house itself looked delicious, marvellously decorated in several stunning and I'll bet expensive ornaments and jewels.THE BAD--There are no particularly memorable scenes or sequences in this film. When I look back on movies I love to think that part was my favourite or I'd see the movie all over again just to see that part! but I wasn't really mesmerised by this picture. It was somewhat forgettable.--This movie is too long. It could've been cut down considerably. If it had I feel the rating would've been higher as the other flaws don't compare so much to this MAJOR flaw. Three hours to tell this story is one hour and a half too much.--I was enthralled by the mystery of the film, and finding out whom the killer is kept me glued to my seat. I was surprised to see I got my guess right, but disappointed that this huge plot revelation was left on a is that it? note.RATING7/10 - I appreciated Gosford Park more on the level that it was a very well made film, not really for my personal enjoyment, though on many levels I found the film entertaining, it just wasn't fully engaging.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDElizabeth (9/10) From Hell (8/10) Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (9/10) Shakespeare in Love (9/10) Titanic (10/10) "},{"Title":"Better the second time","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Yes, there are too many characters, and yes, the dialog is hard to follow, but this is still a very good movie. Watch it the first time for an entertaining glimpse of the the English class system in action.As an American, I'm always fascinated how the English can be so polite and yet so rude at the same time. They say dreadful things to each other but keep that civil tone. Americans can't do that.By the time the movie ends, you've sort of figured out who everyone is and what their story is, so when you watch it a second time, much more of the dialog makes sense. You can also pick up on the clues to the plot twists that slipped past the first time. "},{"Title":"Upstairs and Downstairs","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes the exchange of English-language culture across the big pond has been very beneficial to both sides of the Atlantic. Henry James, American, lived and worked most of his life in England, as did T.S. Eliot. Many British-born actors and actresses have become `great stars' on the other side of the Atlantic.More recently we have seen how the Dorset man, Stephen Daldry, crossed the Atlantic and put together `The Hours' (qv), most definitely a great film. In the case of `Gosford Park', Robert Altman came across to Britain and put together an incredible cast to make an enthralling film. Cultural exchanges, are of course, always beneficial in all senses.So with `Gosford Park', a well-written, well-directed and well-acted film which affords delightful viewing. In the style of a stage play, the action takes place in the upstairs lounge of the wealthy ladies and gents, and in the downstairs kitchens of the staff, servants, butlers, cooks and so on. Whether there is any real story to the film is of very secondary importance one of the invited gentry dies. Who killed him? It does not really matter, and anyway the film leaves us with this ambiguous doubt in the air.What does matter is the personal clashes, whether upstairs or downstairs or in my lady's chamber, or simply in the never-ending passages of the great mansion, to the west of London. The omnipresent tendency to snobbishness, by both the upper and lower classes is manifest in scintillating dialogues, often witty, and so wonderfully carried out in the best British tradition of characteriological theatre pieces. Everyone from Henry Fielding to Tom Stoppard could not be but well pleased with this really delicious offering.The cast is magnificent; from the affected accent of the upper classes to the `inferior' versions of the English from Leicester or Scotland, one immediately senses part of the essence of this film. The heavily-ladelled hypocracy of the post-Victorian landed-gentry in the 1930's take care of what remains of the vestiges of their supposed dignity. This film runs fairly close to and should be compared with Jane Campion's `The Portrait of a Lady' (1996) (qv) and of course the above-mentioned Stephen Daldry film, as all three capture so splendidly the sociological concepts of the times in superb character interpretations, something which failed miserably in Martin Scorsese's `The Age of Innocence' (1993) (qv). Fortunately, I have the film on VHS and plan to see it again a couple of times before Christmas, so engrossing it is. Thankyou Mr Altman - and all your team - for making this truly enjoyable piece.  "},{"Title":"An Isitawhodunnit?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"     Robert Altman makes several kinds of films, but the best fall into two totally seperate categories there are the faithful adaptations of turgid stage plays like Five and Dime Jimmy Dean and Streamers. He's found a way to make otherwise unfilmable stage plays into movies that are as riveting as a live performance for those who are willing to engage with them The story is told through an intense unblinking focus on the characters. The other type of movie he makes are these large, chaotic, no-strict-storyline examinations of particular, exotic worlds like the country music industry in Nashville or a Korean war MASH unit or the Paris fashion scene.    Gosford Park is his merging of the two types of film it has a very defined story and fully realized characters, but there is a very large cast of characters and the focus shifts about so no single character is allowed to become the protagonist through whom the story is seen - almost the character of Mary, Maggie Smith's ladies' maid comes closest to filling that role. Technically, as there is a murder, and it is revealed to the viewer (but not the police inspector in the movie) who the killer is, you might claim it is a whodunit. But that is to miss the point entirely. This movie is and is meant to be an ultra-high resolution examination (meticulously researched) of the world of the British aristocracy at the time of its height of glamour and sophistication and precariousness, the way say, Nashville for example was an examination of the '70s country music scene. Unlike Nashville, and MASH and Pret-A-Porter, it had a very strong character driven story line like Altman's filmed stage plays. This movie differs from a mainstream Hollywood film in chiefly this way each character in it is fully written and worthy of a whole movie centered on him/herself; no character is used as a mere device to move the story along. This may be too challenging or simply not to the taste of some viewers, but that is why this movie is better seen on video, where you can rewind and replay any particular scene little gestures or casually spoken lines are later revealed to have such great significance. I enjoyed it more for this reason as it seemed a much richer experience than a typical movie, but I suppose for this very reason some people would enjoy it less.     Other than the milieu, it does not have much in common with an Agatha Christie mystery the characters, though representing conventional stereotypes, are not abstract stock characters, the murder plot is pretty straightforward,  not a formulaic elaboration of twists and red herrings and there's no real suspense or spookiness. I've read about half a dozen AC mysteries that take place in the English countryside and I learned far more about that world from watching this film. "},{"Title":"An Isitawhodunnit?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"     Robert Altman makes several kinds of films, but the best fall into two totally seperate categories there are the faithful adaptations of turgid stage plays like Five and Dime Jimmy Dean and Streamers. He's found a way to make otherwise unfilmable stage plays into movies that are as riveting as a live performance for those who are willing to engage with them The story is told through an intense unblinking focus on the characters. The other type of movie he makes are these large, chaotic, no-strict-storyline examinations of particular, exotic worlds like the country music industry in Nashville or a Korean war MASH unit or the Paris fashion scene.    Gosford Park is his merging of the two types of film it has a very defined story and fully realized characters, but there is a very large cast of characters and the focus shifts about so no single character is allowed to become the protagonist through whom the story is seen - almost the character of Mary, Maggie Smith's ladies' maid comes closest to filling that role. Technically, as there is a murder, and it is revealed to the viewer (but not the police inspector in the movie) who the killer is, you might claim it is a whodunit. But that is to miss the point entirely. This movie is and is meant to be an ultra-high resolution examination (meticulously researched) of the world of the British aristocracy at the time of its height of glamour and sophistication and precariousness, the way say, Nashville for example was an examination of the '70s country music scene. Unlike Nashville, and MASH and Pret-A-Porter, it had a very strong character driven story line like Altman's filmed stage plays. This movie differs from a mainstream Hollywood film in chiefly this way each character in it is fully written and worthy of a whole movie centered on him/herself; no character is used as a mere device to move the story along. This may be too challenging or simply not to the taste of some viewers, but that is why this movie is better seen on video, where you can rewind and replay any particular scene little gestures or casually spoken lines are later revealed to have such great significance. I enjoyed it more for this reason as it seemed a much richer experience than a typical movie, but I suppose for this very reason some people would enjoy it less.     Other than the milieu, it does not have much in common with an Agatha Christie mystery the characters, though representing conventional stereotypes, are not abstract stock characters, the murder plot is pretty straightforward,  not a formulaic elaboration of twists and red herrings and there's no real suspense or spookiness. I've read about half a dozen AC mysteries that take place in the English countryside and I learned far more about that world from watching this film. "},{"Title":"Sheer Genius -- A Masterpiece","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you were bored by this film, then you have been drubbed over the head by too many pointless and one-dimensional Hollywood films.  Each scene is rich with layers; cinematic layers, character layers, artistic layers.  If your goal is to simply sit back and be told what is happening by the characters in the foreground, you're going to hate this movie.  This is a film that is subtle and powerful in its storytelling.  Much of the exposition is gleaned from inference of action and the supremely crafted dialogue.  Nothing is what it seems.  `Gosford Park' is nothing less than a Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BETS FILMS OF 2002!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  gosford park is such a richly entertaining murder mystery. and its one of the if not the bets film of 2002. this is a genuine masterpiece and one of the top 20 films ever made. robert altman proves he is one of the best directors in cinematic history. this movie deserved best director, actress, supporting actress,original screenplay and costume design. WHAT A MARVELOUS GREAT FUN WITTY MOVIE.  "}{"Title":"ok except for the historical liberties","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park would have been a fine country-house murder mystery with a class cast if it hadn't tripped itself up by one thing - having one of the characters being Ivor Novello, the real actor/composer of the 20s/30s and then bending facts so he is singing songs he hadn't written in the year the film was set (the fact that he even sings at all is amusing - as any Novello devotee will know he didn't have much of a voice and certainly not of a calibre to entertain a roomfull of guests and charm the servants).  So that was a minor irritation, despite Jeremy Northam doing his best.The other cast members - Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott-Thomas, Maggie Smith, Alan Bates, Eileen Atkins, Helen Mirren, Clive Owen - are all very good, even if it doesn't really matter 'who dun it' by the end. A well-deserved Oscar went to British character actor Julian Fellowes, who wrote the screenplay, and it is nicely directed by the great Robert Altman. "},{"Title":"Not everyone's cup of tea...","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Gosford Park' is like a cross between 'The Remains of the Day' and 'Clue'. After looking at the cast listed here at the IMDb, I counted 46 people in the house (including all the maids and butlers, whose parts are small), so naturally I wasn't sure of most of their names throughout the movie. Just about every British person you can think of is in this movie (not counting Ryan Phillippe). Maggie Smith is great as a sarcastic upper-class woman (who doesn't think she is one) and she deserved her Supporting Actress Oscar nomination. Robert Altman's Golden Globe win was also well-earned (the camera follows these 46 people around, providing each of them with their own stories). The actual murder doesn't happen until halfway through and there are many obvious red herrings (shots of poison, knives, guns) to keep you in suspense; not to mention a clever twist (or two) at the end. The movie was constantly interesting because the camera was always moving somewhere else, but it is a very long film (two and a half hours) and I started getting restless towards the end. Much of the British humor in GP was completely lost on me (I either didn't know what someone said or couldn't understand it) but there are a few funny scenes that everyone will enjoy (even if they dislike the rest of the movie). "},{"Title":"A subtle, witty, great film","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film and it is no wonder the it was nominated for best picture and best original screenplay.  Sly wit, and dry humor dominate.  The cast is outstanding and Maggie Smith is a special standout.Unfortunately, I think this movie is far above the heads of the average IMDB user. "},{"Title":"A film going nowhere.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I bought the video for my mother last Christmas, and have to say I was a little dissapointed.  Firstly, it's pretty obvious that this film was made on the cheap; there are hardly any sets other than the drawing room, a few bedrooms, the kitchen etc.  The constant drizzle at the start of the movie gives me the impression the director was worried sick of some background distraction such as a vapour trail, electricity pylon etc.  The movie is basically split in half - an hour pre-murder, and an hour post (the latter with the inclusion of Stephen Fry), and frankly it really smacks of a whodunnit pretending it isn't pretending that it is.  This makes it pretentious in the extreme (and isn't helped by the presence of Fry impersonating himself as per usuall).  I just don't know why they didn't call this film Cluedo The Movie, or something similar as it's really just a feature lengthed episode of Upstairs Downstairs that never really goes anywhere or makes any kind of point.  I mean, I wouldn't mind if it actually had anything to say, only it doesn't ... so I just give in.  (The camera work, studios sets, photography, cinematography though, aren't bad.) "},{"Title":"it's ok to fall alseep on this movie","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am so surprised by all those ignorant comments on this movie which I think is a master piece of impressionism work, just like watch a paining of Monet, longer you staring at this movie more details reveal themselves and they are absolutely fascinating, the murder is really just an excuse of the story nothing but a title of the painting. Well, for those Americans who rushes here and there never knowing how to appreciate the slowness of life should not see this movie Well, I did fall sleep a couple of times too watching this movie, but so what, I think it is totally alright to nap bit watching a great movie, just like being quiet to a true friend, with who you don¡¯t need pretend witty hyper and all.  "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I never liked Robert Altman's movies. My main problem is that they fail to build a real satisfying cinema experience. Yes, they are complex and try to say more than the average movie. Yes, there is a lot of good social comment to follow. Yes, I can like a movie even if the action is not in the focus of its director or script writer. The problem is that altogether, Altman's movies are - for me - hard to watch, and I get too little emotion back for the intellectual effort to watch them. And yet, 'Gosford Park' is better than the 'crowd' of Altman's films. It is set in England between the wars and it chooses as a setting a high class manor that is the scene of many classical Agatha Christie crime stories. There is even a murder to solve, though it does not seem to be in the focus of the director. What is in focus is the class relationship between masters and servants and whoever knows the British society knows that this is an important aspect of the British life until today. A multitude of superb actors, most of them British do their usual fine job, and it is always a delight to watch Maggie Smith, Helen Mirren, or Emily Watson in action.But, but... all is unfortunately lost in the never-ending verbage, in the confusing camera work which may be the delight of critics but never helps the viewer to better understand the message. The European and certainly British viewers have many BBC TV films who succeed at least as well, or even better to recreate the atmosphere and may enjoy similar (or same!) teams of fine actors. No need for Altman to cross the Ocean to do this film. 7/10 on my personal scale.  "},{"Title":"Scattered and shallow story, superb direction","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Plot boring and obvious. There's an old screenwriter's adage that if someone gets shot in Act 3, show the rifle on the mantle in Act 1. This film follows this to a T but posts giant neon signs around said rifle. The viewer should be insulted by the director's low expectations of his intelligence.The plot also greatly suffers from very shallow character development, simply because there were too many of them. Pulp Fiction only had four characters and Magnolia had three hours of screentime. This film tries to develop 15 characters in 2 hours and fails utterly. I'll grant that it was done efficiently, but this was simply an impossible goal given the resources.There are a few more glaring flaws with the screenplay, but I'll give it a rest. The direction, sets, costumes, mood and soundtrack were all superb though. And the acting well above average fare, even by British standards, especially Maggie Smith. "},{"Title":"The Mystery is not the Murder","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're into murder mysteries, you might not like Gosford Park.  It's a mystery, alright, and there is a murder;  but, they're ancillary to the film.  If there is a puzzle, it's the question of how the British nobility managed to survive as long as they did on their cachet of social prestige, why their indolence, concupiscence, social isolation, and wanton self-destructiveness didn't drive them to extinction, like the Romanoffs, long ago.  Both the servants and the nobility hate each other.  A valet describes Lady McCordle as a `snobbish cow, completely `useless.'  Another valet ridicules his master as thinking that he's `God almighty,' to which a maid replies, `They all do.'  The upstairs nobility are all hopelessly incompetent;  for example, when the butler demands the whereabouts of a guest from his valet, the valet replies  `I washed him and I dressed him and if he can't find his way to the drawing room, it's not my fault.'  The upper classes are viewed as `pathetic.'  The nobility, on the other hand, though they use their servants as sex toys and as their personal conduits of gossip, treat their servants as if they were burdens to be borne.  Lady Trentham is typical  in the process of `breaking in' a new maid,' she acts as though she's bearing Christ's own crucifix.  She exclaims, `There's nothing more exhausting, Is there?'  So the real mystery of the movie is why the system moved along as smoothly as it did in the face of all the glaring inconsistencies and injustices.  Altman doesn't hit you over the head with an answer, but does suggest some clues;  for example, in many ways, servants and masters are very similar.  We see the social stratification amongst the servants themselves, and their love, like their masters, of humiliating others.  We see the upper classes feeding off the human warmth of the lower, the lower classes feeding off the social prestige of the upper.  The upper and the lower classes use each other.  It's a false empowerment, but an empowerment just the same. Just the same, the mystery goes unanswered when the movie is over, forcing you, the viewer, to puzzle it out for yourself.    "},{"Title":"A fractal of post empire society","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A very subtle examination of the symbiotic relationship between master and servant. This film demands you pay attention. If you do, it is a rewarding experience. If you don't or have attention deficit disorder, you will not like, understand or want it.  I say, well done Altman. However ---possible spoiler here--- it must have been hard resisting the temptation to poison all of them! "},{"Title":"Some features of the aristocracy","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Looking at the film, one sees the scenes scattered without any defined line to follow, it is necessary to go through to avoid missing any scenes otherwise one would not be able to understand the plot. It is certainly an original work of the director Robert Altman. Each person in the film has a determined character, but in general one can conclude that the life of aristocracy is empty in its content, it is also unproductive. The high Lord behaved as former Spanish colonizers, i.e. showing one face, very moral one in front of his relatives, but having sex with all his maidservants and these when pregnant had no other choice than to put their children in a beneficence house..        "}{"Title":"Thrill ride that grabs you by the crotch and never lets go. EVER!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Take 2 hours of non-stop heart pounding action, and then add a sizable helping of T&A, and you get 2001's Gosford Park.  Although the gore level was a bit high for my tastes, this movie was an unbelievable adrenaline rush from opening to closing credits.  Maggie Smith! Oh my god, I'd like to shift her into gear.  And I even read she does all of her own stunts in this movie.  This is not for the feint of heart, but a must see for die hard action-splatter-fest fans. "},{"Title":"Everything But Hercule Poirot- And He Is Desperately Needed","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is reminiscent of a Sunday night Masterpiece Theater or Mystery! installment, and you quickly see from sitting through this marathon of a movie why they are usually more effective shown over a few weeks. It's good, but very very long. This type of work especially the subject matter is very much to my taste, but even I found it rather tedious at times, if not uninteresting. It begins well with fascinating character development, only to crawl to a very disappointing climax. If it can be even considered a climax. Altman, ever the master of the ensemble, is true to form. About 50 different characters running around, most to which he teases you with a glimpse of their personality, and secret lives. Again, this is what he does better than anyone else. That part I enjoyed very much, hearing the meaningless banter of the nobility and the not so inconspicuous grousing of the servants. When the plot develops, well... it could have been better. There was an opportunity certainly for a Poirot type to uncover the mysteries, instead Altman chooses to play detective, judge and jury himself, omnisciently and insert an absurdly incompetent Inspector, that we are left to assume enables the perpetrator to wriggle off the hook. The politics of Mr. Altman I'm afraid, as usual, are too transparent in this film. We see the lampooning of the idle class, and the revisionist attempt to convince us that they were to a person, completely useless as human beings. I suppose that's fashionable nowadays, however ridiculous and immature it may be. But to be fair, the 1930s were probably the decade of true decline for these people and their style of life, and many were indeed carrying on in a manner that was no longer suitable to the times, or compatible with their straitened financial means. Sort of like that half hour after last call, when the lights are on, and you can still finish your drink but every minute brings you closer to being asked to leave. Furthermore, Altman in a sense commutes a death sentence with his screenplay (again i.e. The Player) simply I guess because of his politics. Justifiable murder is not a new concept, but its still wrong even in this century. Luxurious, intriguing, and wonderfully photographed, this film will assuredly satisfy an appetite for observing English country life between the Wars.  For the fan of the juicy whodunit mystery, however, you may find it sadly bereft of substance.  "},{"Title":"Rein in the director","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"     You'd think that a movie with such a stellar cast, a beautiful setting, a murder mystery, and a great indictment of the British class system would be something out of the ordinary.  And it would be, with a good director.   The only thing wrong with this movie was stuff that could easily have been fixed edit out 30-45 minutes of drag-on scenes; clean up the sound; put the characters into clearer focus; and build up a little more suspense by having the murder come earlier in the story.   While watching this my husband kept saying to me, What did he say?  What did she say? and I'd reply, I can't hear them whisper over the clatter of dishes any more than you can.  It was incomprehensible to me why the audience was not privy to half the conversations of the film.    And we meet virtually all the characters in a blur in the first ten minutes...by the end of the film I still wasn't entirely sure who some of the supporting characters were.   And the piano scene!  I thought it would never end.    It's a pity, because overall this movie was worth making and watching.  It's just too bad there were so many annoyances getting in the way of my enjoyment.  I recommend it, but you'd better be patient and maybe you could turn on the captioning device of your TV.  I wish I'd thought of that at the time.    "},{"Title":"A Party I Wouldn't Want To Have To Sit Through","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't see this movie when it first came out but I've always liked Maggie Smith so I finally rented it.  I wish I had read some of the user comments prior to spending the money.  This is one of the most overrated movies I have ever seen.  The multiple plot format that has become popular (Magnolia, Sunshine State) is arguably hard to follow.  However, at least the screenplay of those films hold your interest.  This is one of a few movies I've seen where I actually welcomed distractions.Despite the talents of Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren, I could have spent 2 hours and 18 minutes doing laundry and had a better time. "},{"Title":"Boring and wimpy plot","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film spent far too much time introducing all the main and sundry characters instead of getting on with the plot.  The crime took place so too late in the movie, I was actually wondering if there would be a crime at all.  The investigation was a farce, not to mention skimpy and the ending....well, I'm still waiting for it.  I kept watching with the thought that this was a late bloomer and it would end with a bang.  What a waste of time.  No Agatha Christie here. "},{"Title":"Great Film. Americans are incapable of listening","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  to dialogue that has any substance. And God forbid it's in a foreign language (English). Sit back, pay attention, and watch masterful actors at work. Altman has made another great film, and like all Altman films, one must pay attention to this one. The Player had much overlapping dialogue as well. But that one was in Amurican. "},{"Title":"Highs and Lows of Altman's Choices","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman's cast is one where extremes are always there. Ryan Phillippe and Kristen Scott Thomas are the lowest of the cast with a rather limited acting ability. Maggie Smith exemplifies the world of acting at its most promising. Her character is one that exudes a subtle humor with witty comments and critical remarks at just the right moment. Her performance never bores people as she has never done in other films. Supporting her talent is Michael Gambon and Helen Mirren, both interesting, somewhat cryptic characters to leave people wondering about their thoughts and lives. All of these factors come together to create a splendid, thoroughly enjoyable moment. "},{"Title":"B+ or A-?","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Is it a typical rich British people in like the 1800s or early 1900s get together but someone ends up getting murdered movie?  I can't tell.  At first I gave it a B+, because it is incredibly witty, but I would of gave it an A- if I could understand half of what they were saying.  And I couldnt find my remote to turn on captions, either.  It was hard.B+/A-, 8/10 "},{"Title":"You have to like the genre...","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All in all, this movie is very interesting. I am not one to favor this genre, yet as an amiable critic, I say it is decent, intriguing, and overall a worthy film. I particularly noticed Jeremy Northam in his charming character, recognizing him from that TV movie Martin and Lewis. So, I think it deserved the Oscar, because it was a very well done film. "},{"Title":"Perfect acting and...?","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Derek Jacobi, Helen Mirren, Alan Bates, just to name a few. What more can you ask from the corps of brilliant British actors? They won't make anyone disappointed.But still, is this a relation drama or detective fiction? Is it a remake of Agatha Christie without her characters but together with the rest of her art? It's difficult to say, but the story can't fill nearly 2,5 hours. There are surprises in the end and when you've left the theater, you remember many things from the beginning, which is explained later.But this really is virtuosity without a purpose.     "}{"Title":"Yuck. Give me Hitchcock anyday.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not Altman's best film. I'm surprised it was nominated for Best Picture.The overlapping dialogue was incessant and impossible to follow. Boring Brits doing boring things for the first half of the movie.The party scene at the beginning drove me crazy! This was where you needed to find out who was who, etc. and it was impossible to understand what they were saying! "},{"Title":"Pleasant enough but a bit confusing on first viewing","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The number of characters and complexity of storyline make this a bit confusing at first, but it all sorts itself out on second viewing. Sort of a murder mystery, but I won't give away more than that. Worth the view. "},{"Title":"Not a James Ivory film","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman is unpredictable, he's either brilliant or really next to his shoes.  Unfortunately this time he failed again.  Was it one of his dreams to do a Merchant/Ivory look-alike production ?  Well this was no End of Days I'm afraid !  The story is boring, you don't care about the characters as they're all either so snobbish or boring and sad. Ryan Philips is the most annoying of them all, you just want to hit him.  What was this movie doing in the list for the Oscar's I wonder...  Such a great cast, so much rubbish.  Too bad !  Give me back Shortcuts please, at least that was excellent !  "},{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A near perfect re-enactment of a piece of social history. The murder is practically incidental. So many of you criticise this film but this is typical of Altman what were you expecting? People really did live like this, servants had their own pecking order.  "},{"Title":"One For The Yanks","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Caught this on DVD recently. Came with a case covered with glowing reviews. What a disappointment. You would think with a fantastic cast like this and a top director like Robert Altman they could come up with something better than this. The problem is that the whole thing is so dull and uninvolving and you really don't identify with any of the characters. As a character study it fails because there are simply too many characters in the movie and the actual plot consists of virtually nothing. American audiences love these kind of portrayals of us Brits. To us Brits,  this is all a bit of a bore.Merchant Ivory do this type of movie much better.The DVD has no additional features and is pretty much a waste of time.Bit of a shame this!   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Enjoyable throughout, I was left guessing until the end, as to the identity of the killer(s), although I did suss out who was the killee.My only complaint is Charles Dance's lack of screen time. Other than that, good work, oldman!   "},{"Title":"An English mystery","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an Ennglish type of mystery.  The clues come from a lot of verbal interaction.  It is very well done, but not for someone who feels the English style is boring.  It has many subtleties that come in quick succession at times.  There are a lot of people interactions going on at the same time and sometimes it is hard to tell who is talking.  It is all explained in the end, including all the little twists.  It is more than a who done it.  In the end one feels that it really doesn't matter much.  "},{"Title":"Better drink a gallon of coffee first.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park about a group of snotty rich folks gathering in a fancy house to socialize and hunt, had few interesting moments, and hours of careless film-making. Unforunately, the mystery was extremely weak, and not even very much fun to figure out. There are just so many characters introduced that have no point in being in the film, are not even thinkably involved in the murder. So what's the point of introducing, and wasting so much time on totally boring characters?The only aspect of the film that at all interested me was the relationships between the servants. There were some admittedly some funny moments.Unless you just love listening to american actors play pretentious britts, I'd avoid this one. I was dozing off for around 80 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I recently watched Gosford Park on pay-per-view, it is an exceptionally entertaining film, what with its talented cast and the colorful characters that they play. The film impressed me with its sharp-wit, and the interesting dialogue between each character. The rich scenery includes you into the film to an extent where you feel like you are walking in the halls along with the maidservants. No matter how you feel about other murder-mystery films you will definitely not be disappointed with this film. "},{"Title":"Genuine","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was an entertaining feast for the senses, I highly recommend viewing this film, it is one definitely worth watching. With its intriguing dialogue and impressive cast (which includes Kristin Scott Thomas, Emily Watson, Maggie Smith, Clive Owen, as well as Ryan Phillippe) you will definably not be disappointed. Altman succeeded in making each scene remarkably insightful, making his audiences feel like an accomplice to the plot. This murder/mystery mixed with the renowned British wit makes this film a definite must see. For the less fortunate whom have yet to watch this Oscar winning film there is no need to worry, according to my network cable operator it will soon be on ppv. What better then to watch this great film in the comfort of your own home! "}{"Title":"Neither a great period drama or murder/mystery","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" ..There's a lot of comment about the audibility of the dialogue on this picture, and speaking as a Brit, I found it difficult to make out what was being said on occasion. Having to concentrate on the large cast while straining to hear what was being said didn't immediately endear this movie to me. No other problems with the cast though - most being stalwarts of British Cinema and Television, my biggest regret would be that certain actors were woefully underused - Derek Jacobi springs to mind. Stephen Fry was miscast as the detective, a role too close to his comic personas and his portrayal of Jeeves.As for the mystery - even with the lack of clarity on the soundtrack, it was simple to guess the whodunnit element, and the links between the staff, some of it, such as the initial poisoning, were clearly signposted...And it's very long...! "},{"Title":"Empty beauty","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Visually, lovely. 'Upstairs, Downstairs'-like staff superior. Story line, unfulfilling. Mystery? Duh, got it in no time (and was not even trying).Robert Altman always falls short for me. Great texture, little essence. If I had cared for even one character, perhaps it would have made a difference. The only one even slightly interesting to me was the 'Mystery' ex-detective from Second Sight -- would like to have focused more deeply on him. As an Anglophile, knew nearly everyone. But even their individual & collective skills could not bring this story to life for me. And talk about s-l-o-w!!! The first 45 minutes were excruciating. Thanks for the pretty marshmallow, but would rather have plain but more filling. "},{"Title":"Not focused enough","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park has an interesting Upstairs Downstairs look at the class system in England in the 1930's, and it is well acted, particularly Emily Watson and Maggie Smith, but the flaws in this picture are many.  There was no real direction to the plot, the murder seems like a gratuitous thing when it finally does occur.  Count me among the people who have never liked Robert Altman, in fact I think MASH and Nashville are two of the most overrated films ever made.  Here again, despite the fact that I have watched so many Brit films and TV series, I had to use closed caption for much of the movie because of Altman's infuriating need to have people talking on top of each other.   The picture simply lacked focus and cohesion, too many characters, and did I miss something or what the heck was the purpose of Mr. Blond and Rupert?   "},{"Title":"Fine idea, poorly played out...","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A fine idea (even the writing credits seem to be based upon various 'ideas'), a throwback to the classic murder mysteries of old, but poorly played out.A stellar cast of mavericks and newcomers alike is wasted on a script that - despite some excellent dialogue & snappy tongue-in-cheek references - goes on too long, disappearing down too many dark hallways of apparent intrigue.The movie is overlong and dull as a result and the revelations and twists are unsurprising. By the end of the movie, you no longer really cares who committed the dark dead (which takes quite a while to take place - too much setting-up of characters and events) or why.Would've made a fine novel, with the depth to get into the characters, but it is a disappointing movie.Worth seeing for a magnificent cast who give fabulous performances however, and the camp knowing dialogue.  "},{"Title":"My head is still spinning","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie gave my simple little mind too much to digest at too fast a rate of speed. There were too many characters and much of the dialogue was inaudible due to accents and poor sound (I finally turned on closed captioning about halfway through the movie. It helped a little.) I like murder mysteries but this one was incomprehensible. Of course my wife knew exactly what was going on and figured the whole thing out long before I had a clue. Gosford Park probably deserved more than the 5 rating I gave it, but there was something about it that left me totally underwhelmed and frustrated. Best I can determine, if you're a regular guy, you're not going to like this movie. "},{"Title":"stays with you","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was far from an Altman fan before seeing GOSFORD PARK - In 1980 I remember avoiding the Chuck & Di's wedding in the 80's by going to see POPEYE. (Not a great day) Re-watched MASH though after seeing this and I think Altman is growing on me.I sympathise with other posters over the accents. It's difficult to pick out the dialogue as it is without knowing the lingo.Don't be put off though because this is a rich, rewarding movie that will stay fresh on many levels. It passes as a murder mystery but almost a spoof of that genre - more like MURDER BY DEATH. It's a great comedy also but most of all its a brilliant social & historical thriller.Strange how some US posters are fawning over the virtues and manners of the characters in this film. GOSFORD PARK is all about showing the rest of the world the real horrors of the class system. It's depicting a world of polite slavery on its last legs and Altman does the job of  justifying the US War of Independence with a million times more braincells than Mel Gibson's THE PATRIOT.GOSFORD PARK is not meant to be some pretentious Agatha Christie experience. It's THE SHOOTING PARTY (the pre-war allegory with very similar premise and setting from 1984) with a heart. "},{"Title":"Where's the mystery?","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was an eagerly anticipated rental at our house, especially with the caliber of talent appearing. As a character study, it was first rate. I especially enjoyed watching Alan Bates interacting with Derek Jacobi and Helen Mirren. But the crime took way too long to set up and the resolution was much too forced. My wife and I are glad we rented it first, now we know this is not destined for our bookshelf. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Last weekend, the boyfriend and I rented two movies Gosford Park and Orange County.  I had high hopes for Gosford Park, and chose Orange County on the slim chance that we would get a laugh out of it.  I assumed that Gosford Park would be the superior movie.  Boy, was I wrong.  Never did I think a movie like Orange County would outshine a movie like Gosford Park. But it did.My main enjoyment while watching Gosford Park was watching my boyfriend contort with discomfort as he shouted I hate these people; I don't care about these people; Am I supposed to care about these people?I agree with everyone who dissed this movie.  Especially the poster who said that it didn't deserve a thumbs up...just a finger.Save your $$$ and time, please.  I'll never get those two hours of my life back again! "},{"Title":"High Expectations ...","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It has to be said, the trailer for this movie, would have the majority of people running to watch it.  Sadly they will be disappointed.The movie is way too long, with too many characters.  And not only is there two many characters, the ones playing the servants have two screen names; their real name, and that of their master/mistress they are servicing.It takes 1hr 20mins to actually get to the murder.  Infact, it has to be said i completely forgot there was a murder coming.  It was obvious from the start who done it, and i was very very disappointed in figuring it out.  I was hoping for something clever, but failed to have my expectations realized.The pace of the movie was slow; and like many of the comments in this thread, the characters themselves completely under developed.Removing 50% of the cast, would have made for a much more enjoyable movie, complete with a lot more depth.Sorry ... but Mr Altman serves up another donkey. "},{"Title":"Not a good murder mystery","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found Gosford Park well acted. The pacing and character development suggests a very well crafted murder mystery. All of the characters are suspects. However, by the time the murder is commited, the film spends very little time and engergy solving the crime. The focus remains on the relationships between the characters and the murder becomes a non-issue. I enjoyed Gosford Park but I would not recommend it as a great murder mystery. "}{"Title":"Good elements, but not for everyone","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having watched this movie, I can't deny that there is something there. The settings, the good representation of the period, the performances, all of that worthy of a good movie. The problem is that is very slow. It's like watching a painting. You may appreciate the beauty, but not the reason or the intention.  If this movie is supposed to work as a murder mystery drama, you'll become too numb to care. And in fact, the `mystery' is solved to us without no complications, so there is no real emotion or suspense in it. What really interested me (and that may be an indication that the appeal should be somewhere else than the `mystery' department) was seeing how good the relations of two worlds &#150;masters and servants- are depicted, with their differences, their contradictions, but the unavoidable need to coexist. Two opposites worlds acting together. But not enough to recommend, except, of course, if you really can appreciate a good painting.  "},{"Title":"OK, but could have been better!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really wanted to see Gosford Park when it was in theaters, but waited because I was angry at comments Altman made about America around that time. Now I'm glad I saved my $7.  Gosford Park is very disappointing, especially when you consider its fantastic cast.  Characters are never introduced, they simply appear.  Plot lines are never explained.  And some of the accents, particularly Emily Watson's, are almost impossible to understand.  I watch a lot of British movies and have never had any trouble deciphering accents, but Watson spoke as if her mouth were full of marbles!  I only understood about half of what she said.  The sets are beautiful, as are the clothes. So is Jeremy Northam, but he wasn't featured nearly often enough to save this movie.  My advice?  If you want to watch a movie about an English house party, watch Peter's Friends.  It's far superior.   "},{"Title":"No thumbs up or thumbs down... Only a finger!!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tea, dinner and a murder, what an brilliant plot for a movie, and the costumes and sets were wonderful, heck they even have a cool web-site, it is a shame that the movie ended up being about snooty and boring people. Instead of murdering the host of the hunting party, they should've killed off this movie.  If you are in the mood for a dinner and murder movie, find and rent a copy of Murder By Death you will find it far more entertaining.  I really wanted to like this movie, but it neither rates a thumbs up or a thumbs down, only a finger!! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but SLOWWW","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow-this movie had so much potential, but about an hour could have been cut. The answer to the mystery is beautiful, along with the acting and cinematography.  But about the first 45 min. were UNESCESSARY.  They could have had about a 20 min. exposition, not a 45 min one.  If shorter, this would have been a GREAT movie, but for the length I was NOT crazy about it. "},{"Title":"Country House Murder Mystery...NOT!!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Don't believe a word about this film's being an elaborate 1932 country house murder mystery with a brilliant ensemble cast.  Sounds great, right? It's elaborate, it takes place in 1932 at a country house, there's a murder, and the ensemble cast is brilliant.  There the similarity ends.  The picture is really about Robert Altman's narcissistic obsession with presenting the above elements for a sophisticated, ideally insomniac audience that doesn't exist outside the foggy dens of film critics.  Two things not to expect if you see it1. Plot. The murder belongs to the last third of the film, and no decent lead has yet been planted by that yawning stage.2.  Dialog. Much of it delivered sotto voce and irrelevantly.  Voices fade out as the elegantly dressed and coifed guests disappear down a hall or descend a staircase.  See it if you must as I did on tape with captioning turned on.With a problematic plot and confusing dialog, what is left?  Well, there's the meticulous attention to period fashion, the delicate interplay between servant and master, between upstairs and downstairs, the social fencing between the moribund upper classes and the more vulgar, moneyed elite that was about to replace them. Maggie Smith is the caricature of the old; Balaban of the new.  (Bob Balaban had a hand in the writing of  GP.)  Well and good; it is probably the audience's fault that so many liked the film for its accurate treatment of the manners and mores of the Victorian (!) period. Between the Great War and WWII, perhaps it is hard for some to distinguish Victorian, Edwardian and Modern attitudes. We can't blame Altman for this, unfortunately.See it, but don't expect speed, or a conventional whodunit formula. I rate this only about 2 ½ stars, despite some quality content. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are so many things wrong with this film I can't tell them all. Certain aspects of it were good, like the acting, the direction, and the look. But a film needs a little more substance than that. If you've ever played the board game Clue and wondered what it would look like on a Hollywood screen, this is a perfect match. It feels like Clue. The plot is what you can imagine Clue to be. Hell, I wonder if they didn't decide to make this film while playing Clue. Basically someone is throwing a hunting party and a whole pack of rich snobs gather in one house for a night or two, talk, gossip, and then there's a murder. One major thing wrong here is that there are so many characters that you cannot possibly keep up with names! Not only are you barraged with these people's names but you are given their social status and told their secrets. But what good is that if you can't remember who they are? On top of that, there were several actresses who had such a strong accent that I couldn't understand a word they said! I tried so hard, especially on one blonde actress, and I could not make sense of one damn word! One has to wonder why this film was even made. It's definitely not a mainstream movie. Besides being a murder mystery, it serves up a look at the view on society and social status in 1930s England. But that's all. All you'll see in this film are snobbish blue bloods talking scandals and money while their servants gossip while preparing meals, etc. What's the point? Throw a bunch of boring old people into a house with hired help and you have a movie? Whatever. The real mystery is why in the world this movie came to be. It's all about absolutely nothing. The characters sleep around, listen to the piano, and play cards. Exciting. One old lady in particular was so rude you just want to jump into the movie and slap her around. Really, avoid this unless you want a good look at the 1930s upper and lower class, that's the only thing this film is good for. If not, avoid this movie and save your money and time, this is a whole lot of hooey over baloney. "},{"Title":"Smooth flowing cinema never looked so fine..","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *Very minor spoilers..*Having just watched Gosford Park, I felt compelled to write a short review of it. It's truly one of the finest movies of the last year, and a lesson in film-making to any aspiring directors out there. This nigh on tour de force flows from one scene to another with a fluidity I haven't seen since..well..actually I can't remember another film that felt like it really did take place. The characters are all wonderful to watch, with Maggie Smith really standing out. Jeremy Northam, as always, is superb, and plays perhaps one of the only truly 'sane' people at the mansion. The murder is very much second to the interwoven lives and hidden secrets of many of the characters in the story. My only criticisms are that the story is a little slow in the beginning, (although by no means boring), and that Stephen Fry was perhaps a little too comical in his role as Inspector Thompson. However, top notch direction and a superb cast make this movie a true winner. One to watch for a real lesson in acting.  "},{"Title":"A grand disappointment...mostly in the Academy...","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Firstly, let me say that I did not hate this movie.  I thought it was a decent film (although I'm glad I didn't waste money seeing it on the big screen).However, that does not stop me from being outraged at the Academy again for not giving  credit where credit was due.Two of my favorite films last year (and believe me, I saw plenty) were Memento and the Royal Tennenbaums, both of which were more deserving in the best screenplay category than this film, hands down.And frankly, I find it hard to believe the Academy award is still held in such high esteem when it has clearly fallen ill with  movie politics. Awards are no longer given  based on the merit of the film, but on who the academy (whom I picture in my mind to be quite like the snobbish upper class in this film) feels deserves it for some reason or another, and even goes as far as to try and make up for their more obvious mistakes by making further ones (i.e. Russel Crowe not winning this year, I'm convinced due to the fact he really didn't deserve the one for gladiator the year before).So, in conclusion, I'd just like to point out that Christopher Nolan is a very talented man, and should not have missed out on the Oscar for his brilliant work.  At least I can find solace in the fact that while the Academy is getting old, Mr. Nolan (and Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson, for that matter) will be around for a while and will eventually earn enough political sway to earn the credit they already deserve.And as a final note, you'd figure that an Oscar winning picture could at least find someone to write a decent synopsis for the rental cover...this is a movie about social classes, the murder mystery hardly exists at all.  "},{"Title":"I would like to know who nominated this for Best Picture","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went into a screening of this film with very high hopes for a quality movie.  I mean it was nominated for Best Picture for goodness sakes...I couldn't have been more wrong. First of all this movie should inform the viewer that a notebook is a necessity in watching this film.  I sat through a 2 and half hour movie and I could not tell you ONE characters name. The plot sounded simple enough but I thought it was one with potential.  I was under the impression that it was a Clue type murder mystery.  But how can one expect a viewer to care about who done it when none of the characters seemed to care at all about it.  They just went on about their daily lives without a care in the world. I saw this movie far too long ago to go into any great detail about the plot and what not but overall I was unimpressed. "},{"Title":"A Copy of Rules of the Game","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While this film was well made and well acted, I find it to be way over-rated. This movie is a mere copy of Renoir's classic Rules of the Game. If you are interested in seeing Gosford Park, you should check out Rules of the Game first. I don't see how the critics liked the film so much. Don't get me started on the Academy Awards. Best Script? Please, that is an insult to Christopher Nolan's brilliant masterpiece in Memento. Maggie Smith is a good actress, but she gets typecast, playing the same roles well in many of her films. Robert Altman is a good director, but this film doesn't really show that. While mildly entertaining, the film is slow paced, and some may find it downright boring.7/10 "}{"Title":"I'm old enough to have enjoyed it","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Being old enough and having in my youth met many of the sort of people portrayed in the film I enjoyed it. It must not be taken too seriously, but the portrayals were brilliant of a class of people, fortunately, mostly gone from us. Anybody looking too deeply for a plot would no doubt be left unsatisfied but it was a most enjoyable film for those who saw it for what it is. It is a romp "},{"Title":"Great performances, brilliant plot, amazing costumes, superb musical score, outstanding direction and finally a disappointing ending!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers Having seen Godsford Park at midnight, I can honestly say it's been one of the most interesting movies I've ever seen. I wasn't really bored at all over the course of the movie; but I was quite disappointed when it ended because it doesn't tell us anything and take us anywhere; I can't believe some of the reviewers wrote that they liked the ending. Why do they like it? Is it because it makes you wonder what will happen next? The ending was quite incomplete, I thought this movie would last about 3 hours to give us a perfect ending, but I was actually surprised that it lasted only two and ended making fun of the viewers, that means us! The end makes you confused and doesn't keep us in suspense; nevertheless I loved the way Helen Mirren told the other maid the truth about her son, she gives an absolutely believable performance, she was magnificent in her supporting role, her academy award nomination was well deserved. Even though the end was somewhat disappointing I liked knowing that Mr. Williams's son was supposedly the murderer. It was very unexpected; this is the only thing I really liked about the ending. The whole cast is amazingly adequate; they all gave believable and challenging performances. Kristin Scott Thomas was great in portraying the leading character. She always shows us her talent. Even if her performance wasn't as remarkable as the one she gave in The English Patient I consider her very appropriate for the role. Ryan Phillips gives an interesting performance, it was much better than the one he gave in Cruel Intentions, it was outstanding. The academy award nominee Emily Watson keeps amazing me as always as well as Maggie Smith who delivers a riveting performance as the old upper-class woman. I'm glad all these performances were recognized with an Actor award for best ensemble cast, since they really offer a tremendous reading and understanding of their characters. Godsford Park showed exquisite care in preparing the scenes of 1932 England and an accurate eye for the costumes, as well as outstanding performances from the actors. The story unfolds slowly, but masterfully, however it builds to one of the most inappropriate and disappointing endings ever. 7/10  "},{"Title":"A delightful Altman triumph","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After turning out such mediocre movies as Cookie's Fortune and Dr. T And The Women, Robert Altman makes an outstanding comeback with Gosford Park, a Upstairs-Downstairs style murder-mystery so full of drama, droll wit, unique characters and hidden truths that under a lesser director it could have simply crashed under it's own weight.  As it is however, Gosford Park is a memorable motion picture experience, which retains a certain level of nostalgic wit, even when plunging into the sometimes dark depths of it's multiple characters.  Perhaps, in time, this will even be a film to rival Altman's masterpiece MASH.   By employing such excellent veteran actors, such as Maggie Smith, Derek Jacobi, Michael Gambon, Emily Watson, Kristin Scott Thomas and Helen Mirren (just to name a few) and combining them with lesser known talents, Altman gives us a wry, heartfelt objective portrait of the class struggles in England, while sympathising with all involved.  Standout performances, particularly Maggie Smith, who doubtlessly generates the vast majority of the laughs, are complementary to the superb script by Oscar winner Julie Fellowes.  The mystery is lurid, yet at all times we feel the characters hidden pasts, some of which are revealed to us, some of which are not.  All in all, Gosford Park is a delightful Altman triumph, that harkens back unapologetically to the heyday of classic mysteries such as the Thin Man. "},{"Title":"An awful lot of cooks but the broth stays tasty","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Reviewing Iris, I reckoned that letting actors just get on with it was something that probably only Mike Leigh could get away with. Well it looks as if I need to extend that list of one. Apparently Robert Altman can manage it too. How? Take so many familiar actors that you lose count after the first ten minutes; add a plot centred around that pair of English dramatic standards, the class war and the whodunnit; throw in a pinch of ironic mild self-indulgence in the form of a character plausibly representing Altman himself; stir vigorously and let the flavours mingle. Result? A film that combines solid acting, thoughtfulness, wit and mildly unexpected events to leave us feeling nicely satisfied, neither hungry for more nor bloated. This is especially remarkable for a film that seems to aspire to, and certainly achieves, no great height of originality. No ground-breaking cross-cultural mental cuisine this; rather, a well-judged piece of nursery comfort food that leaves us thinking Oh, they *do* still make 'em like that after all. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere & a great cast","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Beautiful, evocative cinematography I felt as if I had truly traveled to a time and into a culture long-past. A looooonnnnng time to stay in one's seat; the last 1/2 hour began to FEEL long, as if Mr. Altman didn't want it to end. The energy seemed to have flagged before the resolution to the mystery.Of course Maggie Smith deserves special mention; she SHOULD have won the Oscar, she was wickedly delightful throughout. Stephen Fry was the exception to an otherwise outstanding cast/ensemble performance his was the only performance that was over the top, hammy, played for broad laughs. Everyone else seemed to understand that comedy is best played straight. However, his role was very limited and should not interfere with your enjoyment of the film as a whole.A rainy-day film.All in all, though, a wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"Not a good suspense movie.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is not a good suspense movie. It is similar to the movie <<Death of the Nile River>>, however, it does not have the same intense feeling which you want to find out who is the real killer.It is a good nostalgic if you ever miss the good by-gone England era. The director did a good job of describing the two entirely different classes. However, I feel that in his eyes, the servants should be thankful that they have masters to serve. I was confused as who really killed the man, and I am not even sure if the actual killer was revealed at the end. Or maybe I was confused due to those british accent.  "},{"Title":"Loses momentum good actors, but weak story line","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has a very good cast. Most of cast comprises well known British actors, all of whom deliver good performances. However, the plot line is weak, and the promise created in the first half of the movie is not kept.The movie's aim is confused. There are some `Upstairs Downstairs' elements, which seem a trifle unnecessary, since they are not germane to the murder story. As social comment they are gratuitous and inadequate.  The master-servant relationship is a complex one, and  Messrs. Altman and Balaban do not seem to understand it. The movie is a murder mystery, something that is not apparent for the first half of the film. When the movie does get down to it, its development and unravelling take place in a highly unsatisfactory manner. The sense of mystery is only inadequately created, as it is not very clear why anyone should have a motive. The actual motive becomes clear in the last few minutes of the film, and is something that would have been difficult to guess. In any mystery story, the teller has to play fair. He must provide sufficient information for the reader to solve the mystery himself. This Altman fails to do. Thus the suspense is created by not quite playing by the rules. There also the bumbling inspector with the competent sergeant. One wonders if this is more social comment, or merely an opportunity  that Altman thought too good to pass, given that Stephen Fry plays the inspector. Though Inspector Thompson's explanation about why milk is poured before the tea, was rather dismaying.The film cannot make up its mind. Eventually, the mystery bit takes a back seat, as does the social comment bit. Not surprisingly, with nothing driving it, the plot flails. The setting is good, and there is attention to detail, which brings out the atmosphere of a '20s-'30s English stately home quite well. I doubt however if  that much rumpy-pumpy went on between master and servant.All in all well begun, but only half done.  "},{"Title":"A sophisticated and classy murder-mystery.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a British murder mystery set in a country mansion where the class divisions between servants and masters are not as stark as they seem. The people who gather at the McCordle family mansion for a weekend's shooting include an appallingly snobby Countess (the delightful Maggie Smith), grumpy host Sir William, an Jewish-American director, a British celebrity, various upper-class gentry and the horde of servants that includes Mary Macrechan, a young maid through whose eyes we mainly see events unfold. Almost all have secrets. Many have motivations for murder.There over 30 speaking parts, a bewildering number of different plotlines and initially it is hard to remember who is who, which lord married which lady for the money, who is blackmailing whose daughter and exactly how many affairs are going on. Though I still rate Memento's brilliantly crafted screenplay as the year's best, the beauty of Gosford Park's Oscar-winning screenplay is how it makes nearly everyone clearly fit in to the scheme of things eventually and that it gives even characters with tiny parts depth. Director Robert Altman is famous for films with large casts and his skill in handling them is on show here, as he brings out fine performances from everyone, though Steven Fry's bumbling inspector seems out of place.The film does a fine job of skewering upper-class hypocrisy and arrogance, but also has a lot of compassion and wit, and a very good resolution. However it is only during the final scenes of that resolution that I really felt moved emotionally Gosford Park is a movie to admire rather than love.RATING 8/10 "},{"Title":"Don't understand the nods","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The idea for this story is excellent.  The acting is great.  The directing is remarkable.  So why did it turn into such a disappointing movie for me?  For one thing it was boring.  I am usually the type of person who yells at people for hating movies just because they don't have a lot of action or comedy in them, but for some reason I just couldn't force myself to follow Gosford Park.  I don't think it was a bad movie at all... In fact, I think that it deserved most of the awards that it got.  HOWEVER, the worst part of the entire night of the Oscars was when Gosford Park beat Memento in the best original screenplay category.  WHAT IS UP WITH THAT???  The two supporting actresses were excellent and the directing was worthy of a nod, but best picture?  I really have no idea why this movie was so highly regarded by the academy.  Maybe I missed something while I was trying to stay awake.*******7 stars******* "},{"Title":"Why?...............","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As in why did altman take a good plot and acting and destroy the movie.  Why did we have to get avalanched with characters in the first 20 minutes of the movie.  It basically ruined the whole movie for me, even though I understood the end.  Instead of just watching and enjoying the movie, I had to struggle through the whole movie to find out which character was which.      Its not even like Altman had a good reason to bombarde us with characters.  They werent even that important for the plot.  What made it even worse was that all of the characters look similiar, and he doesnt develop them enough for the viewer to go, Ok I remember that guy from when he did, all he does is introduce the characters in casual conversation, and then moves on to others.        Like I said the plot was good, especially the ending and the acting is also very good, but i would advise to wait for it to come out on tape, this way you can rewind and rewind when your hit with the meaningless avalanche in the beginning. "}{"Title":"Interesting idea, badly executed","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film tries to depict life and social conditions and class differences in England of the 1930's, packaged together in a who-dunnit story. Yet, the dialogues are so boring and tedious (especially in the first one third of the film) that you almost end up falling asleep. You are also bombarded with a myriad of names (characters), all of them addressing each other in a constant bla-bla-bla so that you don't know who is who until very late in the film. The hazy effect that is applied throughout the film, along with the low lighting scenes makes it almost painful to the eyes. Overall, I would give it a (rather generous) 6/10. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Altman, it IS a whodunnit - and a good one","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For once, the small-minded hucksters of the publicity department are right, and the film's director (and some critics) are wrong.  The most misleading thing you can say about this film is that it's not really a detective story.  It IS a detective story, as much as anything is.  It should not be approached any other way.That's why the following spoilers really are spoilers (even though I'm not going to say who did it).The material is EXACTLY the same as Agatha Christie at her most classical.  The year is 1932, the setting a large country house.  (Arguably, this is where Christie set every single one of her Poirot novels, and many of the others, besides - even Death Comes at the End, which is set in Ancient Egypt and heavily filled in with local colour, might as well take place in an English country house of 1932.  The year is crucial.  Books set as late as the 1960s take class relations as they existed in 1932 or thereabouts, with the least alteration necessary to keep up with the times.)  There's a party of some sort, and guests are present.  One or two of the guests are exotic (in this case, from Hollywood ... well, one of them is Ivor Novello, who was in fact Welsh, and counting him there are in a complicated sort of way THREE in the Hollywood party, but the point is that they form a small minority and everyone views them as outsiders).  Servants are everywhere.  Grudges are aired.  At least half of those present are hiding something.  The victim of the murder is a loathsome old patriarch; with one or two exceptions, nobody is particularly sorry to see him go, and at least three people THAT WE KNOW OF have a convincing reason to kill him.The only rule which Christie keeps and Altman breaks is that the servants, from the reader's point of view, be above suspicion.  Here the servants are just as much a part of the story as their masters.  Which, in fact, makes the story no less classical.  Christie was snob enough to make the servants part of the story only on very rare occasions, but when they WERE part of the story, they were suspects - and on at least one occasion (I'm sure I could think of more if I tried) a servant turned out to be the murderer.  Interestingly, an even faster rule of Christie's is that the exotic elements of the party are never serious suspects and certainly never guilty, unless they also turn out to be not really exotic after all - if, say, the Austrian writer is really the assumed identity of the missing half-brother everyone had been talking about.  It's interesting that Altman has no interest in breaking THIS rule.  The three exotic characters are, beyond doubt, innocent  (So is the central character, Mary; so are a few others whose alibi the camera explicitly establishes.  EVERYONE else is a suspect.  This is how Christie would have had it.)Altman takes THE classical Christie story and gives complex realism.  He shows us what the servants were doing.  He shows us more about the psychology of class relations than I would have thought possible in such a short time.  It's just as well that he does this, for he lacks Christie's supreme skill at misdirection, or anything like it if we find ourselves failing to suspect the right people, it's not because we've been led to devote our energies suspecting the wrong people, but because we were distracted by all the fascinating sociological buttressing.  Fair enough.  Altman doesn't use his skill to cheat; we have all the clues we need.Up until the actual murder, all is perfection.  This is the bit that Agatha Christie would have strained to make interesting; Altman succeeds effortlessly and three times as well as he really needs to (which is a GOOD thing).  After the murder, where Christie would start to really get going, Altman seems to lose interest (he's stated in interviews that he really didn't have much interest in this part, but that's no excuse).  The strange position in which the actor-pretending-to-be-a-valet finds himself is interesting, but neglected by the script, as is the unravelling of the crime.  Too much of the second half is devoted to showing us again what we've already seen.Oh, and to the excruciatingly laboured routine in which Detective Melchit - sorry, Stephen Fry - demonstrates how much dumber he is than his constable.  Yes, the upper-class detective is a twit and the working-class policeman is capable.  Hooray for the working class.  (It's jarring, as well as being a cheap shot.  None of the other master/servant relationships had been this shallowly defined.)  I like the fact that the guilty parties were uncovered by accident, and that Scotland Yard didn't have a chance because the thick layer of snobbery which covered the south of England would have to be dismantled rather than cut through; but surely this point would have carried more force if the detective had been a competent professional (true professionals being another class altogether), whose inability to solve the crime hadn't been his fault.  I see no reason to question the servants, says Stephen Fry breezily.  Here Altman fails to understand what he was doing.  He thought he was merely satirising Agatha Christie, but in the GOOD parts of the film, he was in fact doing something far more impressive - he was creating an alternate, richer, more socially aware version of her. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman's 'who'donnit which could be viewed as more of a 'why'donnit boasts a brilliant cast that sparkles as it knowingly trashes the Hollywood elite while unknowingly treads on British customs and manners ala Oscar Wilde. Well written, acted and directed.  "},{"Title":"Top Hole","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Fine performances from a top cast and a witty script make Gosford Park a must-see for those that appreciate a film based on dialogue rather than action, explosions and special effects. Maggie Smith gives a glorious performance, whilst the rest of the cast (with the possible exception of Ryan Phillippe as the valet/actor) are excellent. Nice to see Michael Gambon on the big screen again in a major film, whilst Kristen Scott Thomas, on this occasion not being required to do a great deal except lounge around and look gorgeous, does so with great effect.One of Robert Altman's best efforts, for the literate moviegoer. "},{"Title":"An ode to Richard E. Grant...","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having not seen him in anything since Withnail & I, it was glorious to see him at full languidity slouching around the halls of Gosford Park as George, the omnipresent 2nd Butler. In a flawless hilarious comedy of expressions, it is he who stole the first half for me, with Maggie Smith taking the second, if only for her malicious laugh! With such an all-star cast, you will recognise everybody  and Robert Altman certainly displays his excellence in keeping everyone discernable in this hugely complex set of character relationships.A masterpiece of style and wit, complimented by beautiful cinematography and an super cast.8/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  arty but I get it!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Let me be frank. I'm an action movie kind of guy. I like it when things blow up. And nothing blows up in Gosford Park.In fact, the movie doesn't really have a protagonist, and as such the plot sort of meanders. To boot, it's a little arty, which would normally cause me to stop watching mid-way. Don't expect half-action, half-comedy, half-romance -- this is a straight drama.However! It is so fascinating anyway that I must recommend it and you should go see it. The movie is really about two classes of Britains the servants and the nobles. It has a lot to say and the interactions are interesting and meaningful. Importantly (to an action flick guy like me), the film doesn't try to be overly artistically subtle or coy -- it has something to say and just says it without a lot of fluff or melodrama. And it doesn't just shine in one aspect and drop all the rest (a trick that arty people have the training and refinement to appreciate and I don't).The one critique I would make is that the movie contains a crime and it is, frankly, a detour from the main topic. A few mental leaps about who's behind the crime seemed unsupported to me.Who should see this film-- Everyone (although kids might not get it enough to enjoy)-- Action guys like me who are normally bored to tears by dramas (unless you're at the extreme end). When your SO wants to rent this, say yes.-- Anyone who's watched PBS or the BBC way too much and wants to see the servant / master relationship be the subject of the film, not a side issue relegated to stereotypes.I rate Gosford Park a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Deserves to stay below stairs.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A strange mix of social documentary and murder-mystery, 'Gosford Park' is at odds with itself in many ways. The story (such as it is) only really surfaces in the final third of the film, preceeded by a protracted and meandering opening. What emerges is more of 'whosgonnageddit?' than a 'whodunnit?'. The film reads like a regular TV movie, and is elevated beyond it's station by Altman's involvement, and the fantastic ensemble cast. What is really here is a generic detective story wrapped up an expertly realised period piece. Julian Fellowes' screenplay has the expected mix of odd characters, red herrings, and the unforgivable inclusion of that old chestnut - the dithering detective with the clever constable in tow. Thrown into the mix are an American producer, a mysterious young Scottish manservant, and Ivor Novello, seemingly to add some kind of credence to the story. Too many peripheral characters are also bandied about to throw you off the plot, or simply to hide to the fact that there isn't one.The film looks wonderful, is beautifully shot, and the cast are uniformly excellent, but the whole enterprise is merely the build-up for the final pay-off, which when it comes is so obvious that anyone without a clue must've been asleep (which is possible). I would recommend last year's Peter Bogdanovich film 'The Cat's Meow' for a very similar experience with much improved results.  "},{"Title":"Senseless watch of trashfest with Brits in vocation house","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A much favorite genre of comedy I have come to love is the British Comedy. Whether slap-stick with action (Austin Powers films and such) or hilarious diologue and subject matter (Bridget Jones' Diary and such), laughter is always there.  Unfortanately, not even soe specialty of humor in accents or anything in those lines can save this trash-bucket.The film opens with two cars on the same destination to a country house mansion.  One contains al eldery woman with her saufere and trusty young feminist searvent.  The other contains an invited man from Hollywood whose desire throughout the whole film is to come up with a goodscript while battling with his colleagues over the phone.  This may actually be the strongest part of the entire film.After an irritably long time there's finally a murder which I didn't care at the least bit about.  By this point, having given this crap-pile many, many chances, finding only dull diolougue and nothing of a story to go upon, I didn't care about the stupid movie anymore.  I just either wanted a real film or for the ending credits to come.Like with the murder itself, I dind't care worth crap about the resolution of who did it.  I dind't care about any of the characters really.  The film is proclaimed by way to many as tor de froce that unfolds two different worlds about the searvants of a household and the wealty class who inhabit it. I cared for niether, but did feel the sympathy of the horrible lives they lead, not because of either being slaves to the force or being trapped in a world where arrogance is the only means of survival, but because they couldn't come up with anything better to talk about or have any creativivty whatsoever going through their heads.  That saying, the makers must have based this film right out of their own lives.Director Robert Altman won both the Golden Globe and the AFI Award for Best Director.  As I watched the film, I noticed all the time how much better I, myselft, could have directed this film much better and provoking. Currentely, I'm not a well respected film director who has made many acclaimed films.  The votes had to have been sympathetic, more or less. Gosford Park wasn't even nominated out of ten films by the AFI for Best Picture.  They have awards for situations like these.  They're called Lifetime Achievement Awards or Erning B. Thalbergh Awards or within that nature.There are simply too many bad films that get acclaimed.  Films that are more overrated then ever and are, unfortanately, still remembered many times. This crapfest truly is a boring film.  There is boring and then there really is boring.  It is also completely senseless.  I've read that this can be categorized as unusual with the film beginning as very depressing and rainy and the ending happy and full of sunshine when in usual murder sotries it's the other way around.  It doesn't matter because this film is overall depressing for an individual to watch.  Words can't describe how much this film didn't need to have been and shouldn't have been made.It is coincidential that this film is out at the same time when I have read both the play Mousetrap and the novel Ten Little Indians both by Agathie Christy.  Both were enthralling and cna keep any eye interested throughout. They are the types of the classic murder mystery and probably have inspired many with spoofs and spin-oofs.  There is an obvious reason for that and it is because of the entertainment and incapturement of caring and wanting the plot's knowledge.  This film is a scorn on these types of classic stories. It is a scorn on film in general and is a scorn on the human race.It is quite reasonable, I should believe, that the Oscars are brought up. It is or (or actually maybe WAS) heartwrenching that the Academy would nominate this at all.  A travesty at all.  However, not only that, but an incredible film that played all the rules right and perfect for these tragic times about heroism and harship was out.  The war epic Black hawk Down truly shakes the spirit.  The Academy rejected it.  That, again, alone is a travesty.  The math here can be easily done.  Sometimes horrible events occur.  Many times with the great name of film.The script surely deserves the Razzy.  Yet, this world was mistaken and the Oscar was given as hopefull hearts sunk.  Things went down hill for me from there on with the ceremony.  This film is going to be seen and maybe should be seen witht he hope of learning with the true good hearts of people who love film.  Maybe this accident will either be forgotten or become unprophitable.  This was probably the worst film of 2001.  The situations demonstrate some of the modern misguided horrors. "},{"Title":"Good...but overrated","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was hyped, hyped, hyped and, while it was well made and acted, did not blow up my skirt.  I tend to love movies of this type.  I am a major Anglophile.  It was a little slow in spots, however.  I did enjoy the way that the numerous story lines are masterfully juggled, but then that is a trademark of the director, Robert Altman.  All the performances were quite good; however, I find that critics (and the Academy) have praised the wrong actors.  Dame Maggie Smith was very good, but did nothing different from what she usually does.  Helen Mirren???  I have great respect for her acting (see The Madness of King George for a true showcase of her talent), but she spent most of the movie walking around scowling and had one good scene at the end.  I thought the standout performance was Emily Watson.  She is amazing in everything I have seen her in and she does not disappoint here.So, in a nutshell, for those of you who have not seen the film, I suggest to wait until it comes out on video or DVD, rent it, and curl up on your couch with a cup of hot tea.  You'll either have a nice little cinematic experience, or an excellent nap, depending on your taste in movies.  "},{"Title":"Witty and charming!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a wonderful film. It was witty and well acted, and I would recommend it to everyone who wants a good mystery. Everything the characters did was for a reason, and it was such a well developed movie. There were so many characters, but all of them had traits, and the audience actually learns a little of their personality. Kelly McDonald was wonderful, and Maggie Smith was hilarious. Maggie Smith's character was exactly like my grandmother. I would see this movie again!! "}{"Title":"If only...","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a good movie. It could have been great if it would have focused on either being like the first hour (just an impression of life of the wealthy and their servants) or a real who dunnit including gather everyone in a single room scene. The way it is, it's neither and that's unfortunate. "},{"Title":"A genuine whodunit","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you like mysteries, period pieces, or British productions, you'll love Gosford Park.Entanglements, deception, romance, intrigue, humor, and murder color the normal doings above and below stairs on a hunting weekend at an English country house in 1932. The slow opening pace allows viewers to develop understanding for the less common accents. A story worthy of a master mystery writer, the film pays loving attention to every detail from the pecking-order distinctions of social class among a huge cast of diverse characters to gorgeous sets and scenery.  Not a thriller or gore-fest, this is a genuine whodunit that keeps the audience guessing. "},{"Title":"Snores in the Park","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Way too many characters to keep up with that you end up not giving a flip about all set in a very slow moving murder mystery. The only mystery I wanted solved half way into this movie was when it was going to end. To give credit,Robert Altman did get some great performances from this bunch of fine actors but in the end; who cares? I can honestly say that I have enjoyed Mr. Altman's previous films but Gosford Park just didn't work for me. I love movies that I believe this was supposed to be like such as `The Remains of the Day' or `A Room with a View'. This just does not equal those. I can't really put my finger on why this is such an inferior movie other than the pacing. Bottom line a great insomnia cure. Sorry. That's my take. What's yours?  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous aristocratic English fluff is still fluff","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A reasonably fun movie, with some wonderful acting, but nowhere near the great film experience many are proclaiming it to be. Possibly the least suspenseful murder mystery I have ever seen. Beautiful sets, yes, but the interaction of the characters is so haphazard that great actors like Kristin Scott Thomas and Jeremy Northam can only be distinguished from the set dressing because they move. It's an apparently faithful recreation of the times, complete with decadence and snobbery, but to what end? And hasn't that been done a thousand times? Yes, the English aristocracy of the early 20th century were heartless snobs. And? I don't need Robert Altman to tell me this. What, after all, was the purpose of Masterpiece Theater? There are too many throw away plot elements, played by too many interchangeable characters to hold my interest or even to allow me the opportunity to care about any of them. Bob Balaban, who was also one of the producers of the movie, plays a Hollywood producer, making a movie about a murder mystery set in an English manor house. That would have been a nice touch if it weren't both thoroughly transparent and cliched, not to mention trivial and irrelevant to the plot. This kind of movie was parodied in Murder By Death man years ago, and Altman adds nothing new to the genre. I remember no more than 10 minutes of interesting plot developments. It's a technically competent and good-looking movie, with some fine moments, but it has all the significance of the forgotten songs that Northam plays on the piano. There are enough loose ends to generate a soap opera. If anyone cared. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned - and wonderful for it","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't think that they made films like this anymore, but I'm certainly glad they do because it is a sheer delight. In many ways, it is the quintessential British movie, combining the social satire of the old television series `Upstairs, Downstairs' with the conventions of an Agatha Christie murder mystery, the whole thing populated by a magnificent collection of British character actors. Yet it was directed by the American Robert Altman who has become the master of the ensemble movie, whether it be `The Player' or (less successfully) `Pret-A-Porter'.Gosford Park &#150; actually Syon House in west London, near where I live &#150; is the stately home of Sir William (Michael Gambon) and Lady Sylvia McCordle (Kristin Scott Thomas) who invite some relations and guests to a shooting party in 1932. Before too long, Sir William has been murdered and writer Julian Fellowes &#150; who gives the cast some wonderful lines in a richly-textured script &#150; ensures that there are plenty of suspects with a whole variety of theoretical motives. In fact, Sir William is such an unpleasant character that we don't really care that he's been killed and the rites and rituals of the British upper class are dissected with such fascination that we don't care that much who killed him either. But tradition decrees that we have a murderer and a motive and we are given at least one of each. There are so many fine performances from so many well-known (at least to a British audience) faces - Alan Bates, Jeremy Northam, Charles Dance, Clive Owen, Robert E Grant, Helen Mirren, Emily Watson, and many more &#150; but it is the aged Maggie Smith as the Countess of Trentham who has some of the best lines and ultimately steals the show.   "},{"Title":"Not a movie for the 'South Park' crowd...","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is a very, very, very good movie. All of you folks, who were expecting an Agatha Christie retread with whitewashed enough accents and a simplistic enough plot so that even JimJoeBob with an IQ of 90 in Podunk can understand it, can go sit at the back of the class.It is not Agatha Christie. It is not an A&E special. It is not really a murder mystery - we solve the crime through the eyes of a particular character, not through the eyes of a detached viewer.It is quintessential Robert Altman, only with an Anglophile bent. Altman's movies are all like this - ensemble casts, interwoven storylines, no clean-cut hero. Don't like those sort of movies? Go watch Attack of the Clones when it comes out. From the trailer that was shown before Gosford Park started, that might be far easier for you to understand.Those who have criticized the film for having hard to understand accents only reveal their isolation from the rest of the world. Xenophobia ain't pretty, folks. Those who have criticized the film for having a hard to understand plot need to pay better attention. The entirety of the crime /does/ come out in the last five minutes, albeit in hysteria. Those who have criticized the film for acting, screenplay, cinematography, directing... oh, wait. Nobody did.Maybe that says something. ) "},{"Title":"Howards End meets Remains of the Day","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  By jove old chap.  This menage-a-twentyfive or more, all yacking in thick as pea soup british accents at the same time for two hours makes for pretty dull watching not to mention blabber on the ears.They really should have had English subtitles so we might have been able to figure out what they were all yammering about.  It might have made it more interesting.  Nah, I wouldn't. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I loved this film. I suspect those who didn't care for it (other than those who really need to read books other than Gooosebumps) were trying to see it as a murder mystery, which it truly is not. Yes, there's a murder, but finding out who did it isn't really that important. This is more a movie about class distinction. One of my favorite scenes involves Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam) singing. The different reactions to him from the below the stairs people compared to the above the stairs people is quite telling. There were many times that I laughed out loud. This truly was an intelligent, entertaining movie. I own the DVD and have watched this several times. Each time I see a new subtlety that I missed before. All of the actors are top notch and they each add their own wonderful nuance to the story. This is one that you must watch several times before you catch all the plot twists, and there are so many other notable performances! Sophie Thompson, Kristen Scott Thomas, Emily Watson, Ryan Phillippe, Richard E Grant, Clive Owen, Michael Gambon, Helen Mirren, Eileen Atkins, Derek Jacobi, Jeremy Northram, Bob Balaban...and those are just the first few who come to mind! The cast list is a mile long, and every performance is fantastic! "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is really boring. I want my money back.  I was expecting a real who done it kind of movie. It was just too predictable. There was no surprise. It was also hard to to figure out which character was connected to who and what were their names.  Now that was the mystery.  "},{"Title":"Upstairs, downstairs at the luvvie convention.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoiler warning, obviously.  Not that there's much to spoil.  Breakfast at three.  Brunch at nine.  Boredom at midnight.  Intellectually, this is on a par with the ad in which the cretin from All Saints photocopies her (spoiler warning!) arse.  Yes, folks, this is another masterpiece from the genius who gave the world Cookie's Fortune, Pret a Porter and The Gingerbread Man.  In other words, it's a pile of pretentious crud featuring every actor you ever heard of, having so much fun, Mister Altman, thank you so much for allowing me to be in your film even if the script is risible and the end result intolerable.  And oh isn't it eye-opening to see the different yet similar worlds of above stairs and below stairs and oh what fun there is to be had comparing the two, and poking fun at posh people and Americans and having so many characters in your film that the audience simply could not care less about a single one of them.  A case in point Jeremy Northam as Ivor Novello.  If anyone can explain why this character is in the film then I'd love to hear from you.  Another case in point Stephen Fry as the policeman.  He turns up and sods off again, a few minutes later.  With no discernible effect whatsoever.  And what about dear old Ryan Philippe?  Surprise - he's not Scottish after all!  And neither the cast nor the audience could give a fart either way, thanks.  The revelation is so utterly banal and unimportant that his character might as well not have been in the film at all.  Same goes for the Amercian film director (Bob Balaban).   And what about that murder?  The crime doesn't get solved.  Which is the point.  Do you see?  Yes, thanks, Robert, for challenging all my preconceptions and being so utterly radical and daring.  Pity you couldn't be entertaining as well, isn't it?  Bit like walking and chewing gum at the same time.  This is, in the end, a remarkably bland and uninvolving film which attempts to disguise its lack of substance by distracting you with Acting and Costume Design.  Why was it made?  Why did I waste good money and time watching it?  These are the kind of questions that keep me awake at night.  Do yourself a favour - stay at home with a good book, or go and watch Monsoon Wedding again.  Or clean the oven, or something.  Anything's better than this. "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable, but as light and slight as a pheasant's feather *Possible Spoilers*","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is not the high-brow, ass-numbing monolith its subject matter, trailer, and Oscar nods might have you believe.  Gosford is essentially an ensemble piece, a showcase for British talent, which is set at a 1930s shooting party weekend.  There is, as you will have read from other reviews, a murder mystery, but this is just an ancillary subplot in order for us to observe the interplay between the characters, and to explore the social mores of the time.The setpieces are wonderful, the script is multilayered and doesn't follow traditional narrative (like zillions of other movies lately such as Memento, Mulholland, Vanilla - yes fans, we're in pay attention or pay admission fee again territory here!), and the laughs come thick and fast - but somehow curiously this fails to add up to the sum of its parts, most likely from the lack of resolution to the murder - IMHO the murder comes far too late in the day to carry much weight.Clive Owen is a man to watch, however - he practically burns a hole in the screen he's so hot... "},{"Title":"Complete Bore","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  GOSFORD PARKGosford Park is an incredibly overrated film from one of the most overrated directors of all time.  I am a avid filmgoer and I have sat through thousands of films, however, this one left me squirming in my seat. I waited for what seemed like an eternity for the film to end.  It takes alot for me to be bored by even the worst of films but this one sure did.You might be thinking from my previous comments that I think this is a terrible film but you would be wrong in that assumption.  In fact I think the film has been admirable assests.  The cast is superb but they are not forced to strain themselves at all as there are no stand-out perfomances. There are far too many characters and storylines for even a 10-hour movie. It would have been better to simply cut out perhaps a dozen unimportant characters and stick to the real meat of the story.  But if Altman had done that he would not be able to brag about the great cast he has.  While some may argue that the whole point of the film is the fact there are so many plotlines I think that is alot of crap, good films have a coherent, compelling storyline, enough said.For years I have heard about how great a director Altman is.  Am I missing something?  I just don't understand what everyone sees in him.  Never once has he directed from a good script, it always seems like he just shows up on the set points a camera in the direction of the actors and expects magic to happen.  It very rarely does.  M*A*S*H was just okay, same goes with The Long Goodbye and The Player but just about every other film he has done has ranged from mediocre to crap.  His work here is no different, the way he constantly moves his camera is particularly distracting and annoying.Of course the geniuses in the Academy have decided to overlook other great films and directors of 2001 and instead nominate this film for best picture and director.  I am irate over the fact that great films like Memento and a great director like Baz Luhrmann were passed over for this.  "},{"Title":"Great entertainment and social critique","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It probably helps to be English, or at least to be familiar with the genre of the Agatha Christie-style murder mystery, to appreciate this film.  While the murder mystery itself was not the most stunning, the subtle depiction of the contradictions at the heart of British society of the period were most stimulating. "},{"Title":"Mysterious, but predictable","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed watching the portrayed British aristocratic life style.  But I believe the story was a bit weak, cause I predicted the ending...one of the few times this has occurred while watching a murder-mystery.  But nonetheless it was price of admission (however, didn't think it was Oscar material, I think that belongs hands down to the Beautiful Mind) ) "},{"Title":"I can be my own worst enemy sometimes, but not with 'Gosford Park'","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot relate with practically the rest of the world who loved 'The Others' because I guessed the ending while watching it.  It has always been a game my father and I would play while watching a movie, who can guess what is going to happen first.  Thanks Dad op !  Well, I'm pleased to announce that 'Gosford Park' wouldn't let me guess it.  And for that I loved it (don't get me too wrong, I can't guess every movie, despite being almost perfect ).  Throw in the fact that I like period pieces and a who-done-it and this movie gets an A+ grade.  It's good to see Clive Owen doing something other then driving a BMW (although those were Very cool) and can you deny Maggie Smith's amazing performance.  Didn't you just love to hate the countess?  And I can only recall Kelly Macdonald from &#145;Trainspotting', hard to believe I recall anything from &#145;Trainspotting', due to watching it with my head in a toilet the whole time, now there's a movie that was hard to swallow.When I read the nominees for Best Picture I gave &#145;Gosford Park' a pleased nod.  I have regrettably only seen 2 of the 5 nominees and I own the &#145;Moulin Rouge' DVD so I have no opinion on who should win this year.  But here's to good luck Gosford.  "},{"Title":"Yet More of Altman's New Clothes","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Full of acting talent, Gosford Park only delivers in fits as Altman throws in every Cluedo, Sherlock Holmes and Agatha Christie cliche known to human kind.There are some decent twists, sure, but the lack of a decent central narrative ruins it.Finally, the comedy policeman is just an insult and lets down the whole film. In the 1930s Scotland Yard was the world leader in murder investigation having pioneered fingerprinting and other forensic methods. Even all those years ago an Inspector would never have got away with such a sloppy investigation. "},{"Title":"DISAPPOINTING...OSCARS??!!!!?!?!??","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well I must say this was a disappointing film, especially considering it was by Robert Altman, one of the great American directors.  This film was long, tedious, dull, and slow, and I was struggling to hold still in my seat I was so anxious for the film to end.  For me, the only thing that made me pay any attention was Maggie Smith who played a hilarious British rich snob, and her lines in the film were great.  Yet other than that, although it was a great cast, this film, uh.... why don't we say SUCKED.  It was amazingly hard to follow, the lighting of the house that the film took place in gave me a headache, and although the ending was good, I found that I couldn't care less what happened.  Altman uses an hour and a half to build up the characters, but he has so many characters in the film that there is absolutely no character development--the audience is too confused and bored to care about breaks in the story.  In the previews to the film, we find out that the film is about a group of rich guests going to a British country home for a hunting party, and one of them is murdered.  But by the end of the film, we don't even clearly discover who the actual murderer was, and I had no clue who did it, and didn't really care, until someone told me.  On top of all that, because almost of the characters were either Scottish or British, I found it difficult to understand.  I would almost like this film more if it weren't being nominated for an Oscar, especially best picture, because a film like David Lynch's Mulholland Drive deserves an Oscar much more than Gosford Park.  I do think that Altman did a great job creating a really closed- in and claustrophobic feeling within the house, and every scene that was shot outside made me feel relieved and free from the madness of the characters within the house-yet this was Altman's genius, and for me one of the only highlights of the movie.   "},{"Title":"Am I missing something?","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've read a lot of praise here for this movie, and I agree that the acting and the cinematography was superb in this film. Unfortunately it just wasn't very interesting.I like social commentaries, just as long as they have a point to make.Watching people drinking tea and whining is not my idea of a good night out, and I'm British. Things started picking up after about an hour, but after the murder and the blatant clues it was pretty obvious what was going on.Sorry, 1 out of 5 from me. "},{"Title":"Entertaining time with Brits, but Oscars?!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"      First off, this did not deserve a Best Picture nomination.  Black Hawk Down, Memento, Dinner Rush,  Amelie, any of those films overall provided a better satisfaction than this light dessert.  Bob Giraldi's indie pic Dinner Rush came out last year and kept on coming back to my mind as I watched Gosford Park.  (By the way, are the words Gosford Park ever said in the film?!)      The structure of Dinner Rush is actually quite similar all the action takes place at a fancy Italian restaurant in lovely Tribeca, NY, and the camera takes us between the two cultures of the upstairs guests and hosts, and the downstairs cooks and waiters panicking and struggling to make the perfect meals.  There's murder, suspense, comedy, drama, and it is perhaps an even more effective ensemble film, because the twists end up tying together various members of the cast that would otherwise have seemed wasted.  Even better, Tim Ives' cinematography easily made you feel like you were exploring a world, even though you never really left the restaurant.    You know for all the preparation of the meals and the surroundings, I never once wanted to EAT the food these people were eating (unlike Dinner Rush or Big Night.)  I mean, a film so lavish should give you some sense of longing for what these people are coming for.       I still don't get what it is about Altman.  MASH, the Player, Short Cuts (what an awful friggin' film!), and Gosford Park all illustrate a guy who's probably very well respected for making ensemble productions that allow his actors some flexibility and room for improv, but most of the time, I don't come away from his films feeling particularly awakened, tortured, or affected.  You feel like instead you've gotten to watch some actors enjoying/torturing/affecting themselves, and spend two hours living vicariously through them.    I have to admit Gosford Park has some gorgeous cinematography that deserves an Oscar nom, and the film has some very well-played performances from Emily Watson, Clive Owen, Stephen Fry, Kelly MacDonald, Maggie Smith, (though all on the small side) and as always, the facial expressions of Richard E. Grant are always good for a laugh.  However, it's not really an impressive film to me.  As a matter of fact, I came out having gotten exactly what I expected, and that wasn't much.      As everyone else has said, the murder is a side note, an inconvenience in an otherwise quite lovely/dreadful weekEND.  My usual problem with Mercant Ivory/Jane Austen/British art films is just how good these people have got it, and at the same time how little they appreciate the fact that they've got what so little in the world have.  Actually, the only character I was kind of rooting for was the plain wife (Lady Stockbridge?) of the cheating husband, who the film seemed to indicate was going to end up with the Hollywood star (Jeremy Northam), yet like so many other characters, Altman seemed to abandon this subplot in the last quarter of the film.            Finally, I got to give the film points for one thing you're living in a pretty demented world when the murderer is the one who ends up seeming the most honest, clear-headed, and justified character.     *** "},{"Title":"complicated","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was enjoyable to a point, but very confusing.  I came out of the movie asking what the point was.  Gosford Park is one of the movies you need to see many times to understand it, and I can't wait until it comes out on video, so I can hope to get it this time. "}{"Title":"Screaming Blue-Bloody Murder","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Among the many life lessons I've learned at the movies, high on the list is this If you value your life, never spend the weekend at a British country manor.  Those places kill more people than Dodge City on a hot day.Just such an ill-fated overnighter fills in the story around Gosford Park, Robert Altman's sharp, insightful examination of the class system and social mores of pre-war Britain.  An aging gent (Michael Gambon), who, unlike much of the peerage then and since, actually has the money to go with his title, hosts a pheasant-shooting party at his giant country estate.  Invited are various relatives, friends, enemies, hangers-on, and schemers.  There is, of course, a murder, and no shortage of nasty motives and dirty secrets that show a seamy side behind the proper setting.  The murder mystery is the engine that drives the plot, but there are numerous stories going on at once, which Altman skillfully weaves in.Mostly, the movie is a portrait of the upstairs/downstairs culture of Britain the numerous servants, cooks, valets, etc., and how they interact with those they serve (how many movies credit a Technical Advisor for Butler?).  We see the ways in which the class structure can be breached, and the ways in which it can't.  This phenomenon extends to other parts of society as well we see a police inspector (wonderfully pompous Stephen Fry) who snaps at his John-Bull constable for fretting about forensic preservation while his boss is trying to glad-hand the toffs.Surprisingly for movies of this type, Gosford Park never descends into full-throated preaching on the subject.  The points it makes are subtle, and while some of them are devastating, the movie itself does not seem to make judgements about what it shows us; that it leaves to us.  In fact, one of the striking things we learn is the way the caste system was enforced just as rigidly from the bottom as it was from the top.Much has been made about Altman's looting of top-drawer British talent for this movie, and it is all deserved there is not a bad performance in the bunch.  Especially noteworthy are Maggie Smith, as the cattiest grande dame you ever met, Emily Watson as a knowing maid, coolly unflappable Clive Owen as a secretive valet, and Kelly MacDonald as the main protagonist, a shy Scots maid whose innocence masks a sharp mind.  Even the token Yanks, Bob Balaban (who receives idea credit) and Ryan Phillippe, manage to hold their own, with Balaban especially funny as a high-stress Hollywood producer of, of all things, Charlie Chan movies.Altman juggles all this particularly well, as he tends to do with such movies, neither spending too much time on a particular sub-story or neglecting it.  His photography also does a good job contrasting the lush, fancy dining rooms with the darker basement corridors of the servants.  He throws us enough of the conventions of the drawing-room mystery to keep us entertained, but doesn't overplay it.  We see a lot of playful zooms on various bottles labelled Poison, but there is no Miss Marple gathering everyone together and pointing out that only Lord Bustle-Thwaite could possibly have known about the secret passage into the smoking-lounge, etc.The script by Julian Fellowes is crisp, witty, and consistently involving, even over two and a half hours (it's a rare mystery that takes such time getting to the actual murder).  It is packed with small, revealing moments a butler grabs a quick smoke, two maids dance in a dining hall to the music coming from the drawing room, a man of rank slips into a basement pantry to eat strawberry jam with a spoon.  The solution to the mystery is a bit on the obvious side, but still affecting.If there is a fault to the movie, it is that it is difficult to keep everyone straight and figure out who is saying what to whom about whom else.  All the characters (and there are a lot of them, dames and ladies and earls and whatnot) are introduced in a whirlwind right at the beginning; just to complicate matters, the servants are called alternately by their own names and their bosses', and everyone is also involved in their own little intrigues and storylines (this difficulty might just be me I had no trouble tracking the various grunts, snake-eaters, and mech jockeys of Black Hawk Down, but throw a couple of viscounts at me and I'm toast.)  A second viewing would probably clear a lot of that up; still, you might bring a notebook.Gosford Park is a rare great thing a deep but unpretentious script, attacked by a skilled director and a stellar cast, rounded out by beautiful art direction, photography, and music.  It's a chance for those of us who lack the proper breedin' to see a culture that is largely but not entirely gone.  Still, if you ever find yourself at a rustic English manse, remember these tips  wear Kevlar under your evening wear, eat only out of cans, and keep an eye on that butler.  He looks kinda shifty. "},{"Title":"Well made but hard to follow and to maintain interest","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park has the look and feel of a well made movie. However, I was disappointed in that it is very difficult to follow with the heavy British accents, low speaking dialog, and many numerous small part characters. Refreshing and pleasant, but not a movie I would recommended going out of your way for. "},{"Title":"A disappointing tangle of characters","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman films have earned respect and kudos over the years. Thus, I was a bit surprised and disappointed that I walked away from Gosford Park wondering about the point of it all.Yes, it was an excellent commentary about social class. Yes, the acting was fabulous. However, commentary and acting do not a good movie make. For starters, it was very hard to understand the dialogue in places, especially when Emily Watson was speaking at the beginning of the film. It was very jumbled and poorly edited.Secondly, where, in any of the characters, is there any display of human kindness? One might point to Trentham's maid, Mary, as an example, but even that is a stretch. Altman portrays only misery and empty lives everywhere. Two plus hours of this is more than I care to watch.And finally, if Altman wants to incorporate murder into a plot, do it justice. The introduction of a bumbling inspector was jarring to say the least. The attempt at humor at that late point in the film seems superfluous at best. The murder line drifts away in meaninglessness much like the rest of the film. At least one can give Altman high marks for consistency. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was stylishly elegant and clever.  The way the plot worked through the servants below stairs and the masters above was great.  The characters were well written and extremely well acted.  The multitude of excellent stars in this is almost unequaled.  Emily Watson and Richard E. Grant were great as usual.  I loved it!   "},{"Title":"Fabulous movie...wonderful cast...Oscar worthy all the way around","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went into Gosford Park not knowing what to expect. What turned me onto it at first was the murder mystery aspect. Once I found out Dame Maggie Smith was in it, I had to go see it. I remember sitting the in the theater, half wondering what I was actually going to see on the screen. However, once the movie started, I was inthralled. It is quite possibly my favourite movie of all time. Robert Altman has done a magnificent job, and the casting is wonderful. Kristin Scott-Thomas was perfect as Lady Sylvia, and Maggie Smith was stellar (as always) as the perfectly snobby Countess of Trentham. The whole cast completely became their parts. Everyone envovled with this movie deserves applause. "},{"Title":"What most viewers have missed","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is billed as a comedy and/or Agatha Cristie murder mystery. While it does have comedic elements, and it uses the classic British country house murder mystery as a framework, it is ABOUT class, class, class. Don't condemn it because you did not have a laugh a minute. Don't condemn it because the murder is simple. Only the distinction between the classes is important, and in this the film does a wonderful job. It is not really very important to get every relationship between servants and their respective master, although understanding these relationships will help some asides and unimportant comments more enjoyable. The film probably needs to be viewed more than once for these points to be picked up. Some things that added very nice touches1) Maggie Smith's constant insults and cutting comments, usually couched in sympathetic language.2) Jeremy Northam's singing, with the adoring servants gathered out of sight in the halls, stairways, etc.3) Bob Balaban's over the top character.4) The detective as played by Stephen Fry, mirroring the usual Dame Agatha super savvy detective, missing every clue while constantly quieting his lower class sidekick who spots them.Not a film for everyone, but if you don't require simple and direct storys, and can patiently absorb the fine details, you can get a lot of subtle enjoyment from this one. "},{"Title":"Ah those secrets...","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am usualy not one to enjoy costume dramas, but luckily this one doesn't take place in a pre Victorian era.  But that isn't what made me enjoy this film immensley, it was the use of several interesting characters each with their own charm and appeal.This must have been just a laborious task to make this film, there are many actors and the story gives each one a chance to get to know the audience. It seemed like this could create a chance for disaster but every actor shines.Essentialy the film is a look at class stuffed England in the 30's with the homeowners living the life of tea and crumpets, and fancy dinners, while the servants tend to their needs and whims.  Of course the servants are all privy to their gossip, but of what use is it, one of them remarks 'Why should we live our lives through them?'As the film continues eventually a guest is murdered, and a preverbiale 'Clue' scene and Agatha Christie who-dunit ensues.  But the real joy of the film is just the characters and how the murder itself releases all the secrets of everyone in this glorious huge castle setting.At one point in the film I just didn't even care who the murderer might have been, I was just so enchanted with the behavior and manners of all the people in this film even at 2 1/2 hours length.  This movie is also very funny and has some classic dialogue most of it coming from Maggie Smith as a snobish old Countess.  Eg..Countess So in your film that you are making someone gets murdered so who did it?Director Oh well I wouldn't want to tell you that would spoil the film.Countess Well I mean really, It's not like anyone here is going to see it.The film is just full of surprises, but I think a lot of American audiences will just not get it and be even confused perhaps by some of the dialogue and accents.  Even still it's a great film.Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best movie of the year!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is simply a masterpiece. I was just awed by how well all those characters are developed, how the dialogue is so sharp and revealing. It has some of my favorite British actors in it anyway, so maybe I was biased going in, but if Maggie Smith doesn't get nominated for Supporting Actress there's no justice. Jeremy Northam is another stand out. I just didn't want the movie to end, and was tempted to immediately purchase another ticket and sit through it again. I may do so yet. This one smart and funny and poignant and all those good things you want a movie to be. If, God forbid, I could see only one movie this year it would be Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"Do not miss this movie!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rated 8About half-way through the movie, I turned to my companion and asked, `Isn't it about time the iceberg struck?'  Yes!  This is the move that Titanic was trying to be, wonderfully funny little dog of a movie, nipping at the heels of the well-to-do's and ne-er do-wells of snooty English society back in the days when society was a word that meant something.  A delicious mix of H.H. Munro and Agatha Christie, Gosford Park isalways witty and usually very funny, working on several levels to entertain and mystify.  Since there really isn't a starring role in this wonderful ensemble, you might say that every part is a bit part, but the casting of these bits is Altman's true victory.  Every single face in the film belongs to a renowned actor or actress, filling their bit parts to bursting with amazing, sly performances.  Maggie Smith is especially delightful as a sharp-tongued snob of an over-dressed old lady, living on herfamily allowance and skewering the feelings of everyone in sight with her vicious observations.  The acting past of each member ofthe cast is as much a part of the fun as the wonderful, giddy story.There actually is a plot, which is almost submerged by the dazzling cast of thousands, but why spoil it for you?  It's a wonderfullyfunny film and very entertaining, one of the best, but the realreason for seeing it is &#150; you'll never see all these people in one film again, and you really don't want to miss your chance.  "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is spectacular.  It defies a lot of expectations, cuz&#133; well cuz Robert Altman doesn't make the movies some people want to see.  It amazes me that after Nashville, The Player, Short Cuts and M*A*S*H people who can't get Altman's almost complete emphasis on character, utter lack of sentimentalism, complexity of plot and extreme demands on the attention still accidentally wander into his films and sit through their vast length expecting something ordinary.  Complaining that none of the characters were likable in an Altman film is like complaining that there are too many explosions in a Bruckheimer film.The murder mystery is a joke, like the throwaway song at the end of Nashville, the inconsequential guilt of Griffin in The Player, or the way Donald Sutherland simply leaves the movie at the end of M*A*S*H.  Altman drags out an Agatha Chirstie scenario and then makes an anticlimax out of the murder.  It isn't a mystery who killed Sir William McCordle at all, justice isn't going to be served, and most of the cast is genuinely uninterested in finding out who did them the favor.  Since many of them are better off after he's gone, knowing anything more about his death would simply be a liability.  Altman takes the point of the old plot and tears it out in order use the setting for another one of his ensemble pieces where characters aren't defined in relation to a McGuffin or other plot element, but in relation to each other. Sir William McCordle's murder is far less important to the film than his relation to all of the women.  Altman does an incredible job of making social taboos, rules and position as real as any character.  The cinematography is elegantly mannered &#150; almost floating around characters like a ghost.  The collage of dialogue is rich and, as usual with Altman films, the actors are so thoroughly in character that every  spot on the screen has someone doing something worth watching.I wish there was a little more of Derek Jacobi though.  "}{"Title":"Slow But Reliable","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  On the downside, Gosford Park contains far too many characters to be able to conveniently keep track of them all. Since most of the Guests look fairly similar in eveningwear, and since most of the Below Stairs characters look similar in uniform, it is virtually impossible to keep track of all the seperate storylines going on. The best thing to do is simply go with it. Another downside to the movie, is that with the multitude of storylines, there is not a concrete resolution to more than about a handful of them.Despite that, once you learn to stop thinking of this as a traditional murder mystery (which, despite the ads, it is not) its a pretty interesting, well acted, portrayal of the dinstinctions between the classes in 1930s England. Of all the characters, though, Maggie Smith really steals the show, giving a much less restrained performance than in Harry Potter and reminding me of some of her earlier works (Evil Under The Sun in particular).Its not a mystery, at least in the traditional sense, and while it is frustrating to keep track of all the characters, it is a good character study, and fairly entertaining, with an ending which I feel is worth the wait.I give it three out of five stars. "},{"Title":"Suckfest!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this one, but unfortunately, I found it to be 2.5 hours of my life I'll never get back. After reading that Ebert gave it 4-stars, I was more that psyched to see it.My complaints flat characters, lame mystery, lack of any humor.The first hour of the film was basically Altman's chance to introduce the characters -- I felt that this could have been done in 10 minutes. The characters were flat and archetypical. There was no need to see an hour of the characters, when their personality was easily known by the first moment they were seen on screen.The movie was not funny. If your idea of funny is a goofy inspector that's designed to be comic relief, but only has ONE joke -- gah!! Not funny! Dry, dry, dry!!The mystery? Oh wait, let's just look at the characters that Altman decides not show a close up with some eerie music. Oh, you can figure the mystery out within 20 minutes into the film? Nice. I did.Even the photography was sub-par. For a 1932 house, with most scenes taking place at night -- it seemed like 3 in the afternoon. The light levels weren't very realistic or motivated at all.Overall, a very disappointing suckfest. Go watch Clue. At least that was somewhat funny and had the maid with the nice rack.  "},{"Title":"A star filled cast does not make a star filled movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With so many well known actors in Gosford Park (including Maggie Smith, Emily Watson, Ryan Phillipe, Jeremy Northam, Derek Jacobi, and Kristin Scott Thomas), one might think there is no way to go wrong.  However, the casting seems only to serve in drawing in audiences to a movie that might otherwise be overlooked as another stodgy British film.  In fact, after watching the murder mystery I came to the conclusion that the large cast hurt the film more than helped.  There are so many characters with so many different problems and gripes, that none of them, in the end, seem important.  We are never allowed to get to know anyone, not even the supposed protagonist in the film, a maid in training who solves the whole murder herself.Therein lies another criticism of the film, the plot.  My viewing companion expressed an expectation that the story would be like Twelve Little Indians, or Murder on the Orient Express.  Though the body count remained as low as that in Murder on the Orient Express, none of Agatha Christie-like wit embodied itself in Gosford Park.  The movie reveals the murderer's identity so easily that such a long and tedious movie seems superfluous.  The explanation behind the murder could have been written in a paragraph and I would have gotten as much out of it.The best part of the film is the visuals and by this, I mean both animate and inanimate.  The house and land on which it is filmed is the epitome of British upper-class living.  The 1932 costumes and the lavishly set tables are all very beautiful.  Some of the actors ain't bad to look at either. But somehow, this doesn't matter when there are other such comparable films with better stories. "},{"Title":"Very crisp...but nothing new","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After all the five star reviews from many of the nation's top critics I was intrigued to find out how Altman could put a new spin on an age-old Agatha Christie plot. We quickly find that this is not the point of this piece. There is no spin, no twists, no surprises, and nothing that we have not seen before...actually the best word to describe it would be ordinary. However, a great cast, and the masterful way that Altman is always able to directs an ensemble of this size is the high point. For anyone who has taken an interest in British tv/cinema, it will feel as though you are a a party with many familiar faces, including standout performances by Clive Owen, Maggie Smith and Stephen Fry. However, do not go in expecting something inventive, or you will leave the theater disappointed.     "},{"Title":"Upstairs, Downstairs","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a fan of both Robert Altman and Jeeves and Wooster I expected this film to be a complete delight; the thought of combining Altman's storytelling ingenuity with an Agatha-Christie type murder mystery set in rural England seemed to promise a kinetic and witty movie that would cattily satirize the rather stale genre of English mysteries.Instead the film turns out to be a fairly straight genre picture, but not the genre that is advertized (a mystery), but rather a sitting room drama; a soap opera, even.  It is a nicely filmed but not especially well-written episode of Upstairs, Downstairs.This is not to say the film is without its merits.  It has a sweetness to it that is often missing from Altman's work, and more surprising, a modesty that doesn't leave many of the director's characteristic fingerprints on the finished product.The assembled cast must include every talented actor with a British accent, from Hellen Mirren to Kristin Scott Thomas to Michael Gambon to Stephen Fry (Jeeves himself, as a detective).  If you are an anglophile there is much here to enjoy.As far as the story itself, I was generally bored or confused, or both, by the extremely large and not especially differentiated cast of characters. This sense of sprawling confusion only adds to the effectiveness of Altman classics like Nashville and Shortcuts because it serves as an accurate represenation of those two mileaus (Shortcuts takes place in suburban Los Angeles) and additionally supports Altman's thematic approach to the material.  Here the parade of characters seems less a function of style or theme and more the symptom of an inability on the part of the filmmakers to distill what is essentially an intimite story down to its necessary parts. It feels like Altman wasn't sure if he was satirizing the English murder mystery, or making a drawing room romance, so we end up with sub-plots heading in opposite directions, most of them destined to remain completely unresolved.  The movie ends almost with a sense of surrender to the needless complication that has been sown throughout as the guests and their servants rush to get out of town, and the theatre patrons rush to get out of their seats, all gushing the same sigh of relief  it's over. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable merge of UPSTAIRS, DOWNSTAIRS and ORIENT EXPRESS.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  GOSFORD PARK  ***_  Murder Mystery, Drama / Dir Robert Altman Michael Gambon, Kristin Scott Thomas, Maggie SmithIn 1932, a group of aristocrats meet for a weekend quail shoot at an English country estate. One of them does not survive. The film merges UPSTAIRS, DOWNSTAIRS with an Agatha Christie style mystery. We meet and get to know all the guests at the estate, as well as their servants.To my eye, the film seemed realistic and believable, though the film's frequent focusing on potential weapons reminded me of the game of CLUE. There are so many characters, that for the first half of the film you are swamped with information. This is a character driven film, and the characters are, for the most part, well developed. The police inspector may be the greatest exception. His main purpose seems to be providing comedic relief. There are no car chases or bomb blasts. Somewhat slow-paced, but an interesting movie.  "},{"Title":"Outrageously funny, but above all a visual banquet","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Despite great respect for Robert Altman's work, I'm not automatically impressed by it, and find myself disappointed as often as not.  But today was different I loved this film from the moment it began. There were not five seconds in the entire film when I was not either fairly convulsed with the (often very black!) humor or staring with near disbelief at the re-creation of a bygone time and place made with such loving attention to detail that, faithful or not, the illusion is compelling enough to be scary.  I would see this movie again anyday, just for the visual aspect.  The way the camera seems to caress surfaces (peeling paint on doors, mud on overshoes, clothing fabric) reminds me of the reveling in textures in In the Mood for Love.  I believe that if he'd never made another film, Robert Altman would have assured himself a name in the history of film with this one. "},{"Title":"Tittilating, tongue-in-cheek twister of a plot.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The director/co-writer is the ex-husband of a dear friend and so I try an see most of his films and keep an objective eye out.  This one was one of his best in a long time.  Maggie Smith is to die for. She has such great lines. Its so wonderful to see the way servants were treated, the way the clothes were so carefully made. The humor was sprinkled in just the right doses - and the bottom line is that I simply must see this again.  Too many things to digest.  Every guest had such stories of their own.  Kristin Scott Thomas was cooly beautiful and Emily Watson, sexy in her slip. Great mystery abounds. It simply has to have a second screening, to filter out all the subplots and get to the who dunnit part.  This movie is a keeper - stays on your mind and makes you think.  Congratultions to Mr. Altman. Kudos to the entire cast and crew. "},{"Title":"Good but this is not a classic mystery","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park has certainly received more than a fair share of hype. It is a good movie -- not a great movie -- but to say that you can watch it as a classic mystery is misleading. Tea at four, dinner at eight -- yes -- but it is well after midnight before we have a murder. The picture is a visual feast and the acting superb. The story is very unusual but might better be described as excellent social commentary with an embedded death in the family. To say more would be to give away the who done it which would be better enjoyed by watching the screen. When you do get to the end, you will probably want something more. "},{"Title":"All-star astonishment","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is an all-star mystery-comedy directed by veteran filmmaker Robert Altman. One of Altman's specialties is having ensemble casts for his movies (Nashville, The Player, Short Cuts, Ready to Wear, Cookie's Fortune, and Dr. T and the Women are other Altman movies that feature big name casts), and he does the same thing here with Gosford Park. The movie takes place in 1932 when a rich couple invite family and friends for a hunting party weekend. We get to meet these people as well as the servants who work for the couple. Then a murder occurs, and it kind of turns into a tribute to the great mystery novelist Agatha Christie (who's stories usually took place at this time of the century). I really liked the way Altman gets you to know all the characters. There are at least 30 speaking parts in this film and everybody's given a chance to make an impression. Gosford Park is surronded by an all British cast, with the exception of Americans Ryan Phillippe and Bob Balaban. Of this big cast, Dame Maggie Smith gives the best performance in the film as an acid-tongued dowager who's the aunt of the female host (Kristin Scott Thomas). The moment when a piano playing actor (Jeremy Northam) is playing the piano, finishes up the third piece of music that he's playing and everyone applauds, Smith steps in by saying Oh no! Don't applaud and encourage him anymore! He'll just keep playing! That is a classic moment thanks to some classic bit of acting by Smith who I've always admired for a long time (she also starred in my all-time favorite mystery movie Death on the Nile from 1978), and she's really good here. I'm glad she's still around acting (she can also be seen in the recent blockbuster Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone). She's a treat to watch. Other actors who are good here besides Smith, Thomas, Northam, Phillippe, and Balaban, there's Helen Mirren, Alan Bates, Emily Watson, Derek Jacobi, Stephen Fry, Michael Gambon, Charles Dance, Richard E. Grant, Kelly MacDonald, and Eileen Atkins. Everybody's good here. Altman is now 77 years old and has never won an Oscar (he's been nominated for Best Director four times). His first Best Director nomination came over 30 years ago for his classic war comedy M.A.S.H.. Gosford Park could very well win him the Best Director Oscar come this March. If this happens, I think it would be well-deserved. Not only for this film, but for his whole career. But I'd give it to him just for his work on Gosford Park alone. It's that good of a job. He's long overdue.***1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"a study of class structure","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps I was sitting in a bad seat and couldn't hear the speakers well.  Maybe I was just not paying close enough attention.  Maybe director Altman was careless. I had one heck of a time keeping the characters and their relationships to one another straight in this movie.  Of the `upstairs folk,' who was married to whom, and who hated who why?  Of the `servant class', who was a maid and who was a cook, or a valet or a butler?  And which downstairs person `reported to' which upstairs person?Or maybe that was the point.Ultimately, I was much more interested in the class structure gathered in this house than I was about the specific history between characters, or even the murder of the lord of the manor.  Of course, most of the characters didn't seem too concerned about the murder either, or rather, the SOLVING of the crime.  You get the idea that while names and faces may change, this society will continue (or at least the characters THINK it will).  "},{"Title":"Must see ... absolutely delicous Altman move","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Remember Upstairs, Downstairs? This movie could be thecynical, R-rated version. An absolutely delicious romp above andbelow stairs. The way the uppers treat the servants, as if they'reinvisible as well as automatons, is spot-on. The way (some of) theservants resign themselves to it is sad but also spot-on.Not a hilarious comedy but a movie that smirks at the manners,mores, and cruelty of the snobs. Fantastic costumes and post WWI settings. The depiction of theupstairs world at bright and beautiful (clothes, rooms) and thedownstairs as dark and dungeonlike (drab uniforms, noisy slatefloors, dark wood everywhere) is masterful. "},{"Title":"Maggie Smith & Emiley Watson Are Great! The Film Was Not!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park is filled with good acting but the characters are not memorable nor are they likeable. In fact there are far too many characters which left me trying to keep track of them through out the film. Maggie Smith and Emily Watson are wonderful but they are the only really bright spots in this Robert Altman effort. Don't get me wrong, the acting is superb but the script leaves a lot to be desired. Go see The Royal Tenenbaums, a much better film. It is loaded with humor and loveable characters that you will remember long after you leave the theatre. "},{"Title":"Altman near his best form.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Beautifully done film.  As a person who lived in Great Britain at the time this movie is laid in, I found only one tiny anachronism.  Even a hearing impaired American can enjoy much of the irony.  The acting is as good as any that Merchant-Ivory have evoked, but with cutting edges that they and Henry James never achieved (or dared?). My one caveat applies as well to another fine film, Michael Collins.  In my experience, the word f**k and its declensions was an extremely rare expletive before 1960 or so.  Its use in these films is a little like the wrist watch on the Roman Centurion.  Is it possible that a film cannot receive a desirable R-rating without frequent use of it? It is gratifying to see that top actors are willing to take relatively small parts for top directors like Altman, Lee, the Coens and others. "},{"Title":"NICE ROMP THROUGH THE ENGLISH LIFESTYLE","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to see the preview of this fine Altman film and I enjoyed it very much.  At times it was hard to cut through the English accents, but outside of this one fault it was excellent.  Maggie Smith was excellent and it was good to see all these English character actors.  Go see this one, you will be pleasantly surprised.smithj "},{"Title":"Bumpy Start, Great Finish","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Robert Altman confuses me. His career is littered with great films and awful films. I mean, AWFUL films. Try and watch BEYOND THERAPY or O.C. & STIGGS. Yet, MASH, NASHVILLE, THE PLAYER - terrific films. I had heard such good things about this movie and then the jumbled, rough beginning threw me for a bit. There were so many characters and at first, I found it hard to figure out who was related, who was married, etc. But once the film found it's footing, it just took off like a rocket. I found this film to just get better as it went along. What a cast. Michael Gambon (who played the rich man hosting the party is a brilliant actor. Just rent THE SINGING DETECTIVE if you havent seen him), Alan Bates, Kirsten Scott Thomas, Derek Jacobi - I mean, it was stunning. Actors love to work with Altman, he lets them improvise, he's fun to be around, it's obvious from this cast that he's able to pull in great talent. Maggie Smith was born to play the spoiled rich woman. Every line out of her mouth was a complaint and she was a joy to watch. Kelli McDonald was touching and endearing as her new maid (she's also brilliant in the little-seen Two Family House)and Clive Owen, Eileen Atkins and Helen Mirren give fantastic performances. The wrap-up is surprising and effective and if you like these British country weekend murder mysteries, you should love Gosford Park! "},{"Title":"It was so good, I hated to see it end...only a few quibbles, but no real reservations","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman has brought forth another winner! I see that several comments have already cited the clear influence of Rules of the Game--not only the shooting scene, I thought, but the sense that what is shown here is a way of life that is already dying--and just as well. We had some difficulty with the intelligibility of dialogue early on, and there were a few peripheral characters who might well have been either cut or pared down to background--but, those minor points aside, the film was unalloyed pleasure. The performances were uniformly strong and impossible to deal with individually. I will note Maggie Smith, splendid as always and given perhaps the most generous portion of marvelous lines; Jeremy Northam, great throughout, but whose singing scene was pure gold (especially the way in which, for one moment, the entire household was welded together in a common euphoria), Derek Jacobi...but enough. Suffice it to say that, if there were an Oscar for ensemble acting, this would win it hands down. The look of the film and the atmosphere were wonderfully evocative, the cinematography expert. SPOILER I thought at first that the bumbling police inspector was more than a bit much, but I eventually bought the notion that one of the ways in which this film works is to stand the age-old convention of the English murder mystery at the country estate archetype on its ear. SPOILER ENDS The scenes of below-stairs life were particularly pointed and fascinating; it's an aspect of the period that seldom gets its due in films with this kind of setting. Parenthetically, anyone who enjoys this movie and has NOT seen Rules of the Game should try to find a decent copy and check it out; it remains one of the masterpieces of film. It isn't meant to be a murder mystery, or, except in an elliptical way, as pointed social commentary about class injustice. But there are elements of these things--and a great deal more. I think it's the best Altman since Short Cuts, and probably as good as Nashville. "},{"Title":"Very Witty Entertaining Film !","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park, is a witty intelligent film... Robert Altmans excellent ensemble cast is brilliant, however, once again , Maggie Smith steals almost every scene she's in...Brava Maggie !!/ some of the dialogue,however, was inaudible, at the theatre where I viewed this film,today... must therefore see again...like a breath of fresh air,  go see and enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"One time watch.","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" It isn't a typical British mystery movie. The murder occurs after 3/4 of the movie is over. It seemed like a Agatha Christie adapted movie but in the end it wasn't. When the inspector investigates the murder it looks like he is just having a casual talk With the suspects. The movies explains us the culture of typical lords in 1930s England. It shows us the life of guests and the servants and valets downstairs.Not to expect a lot from this movie, a slow movie could have been cut and made of 130. In the movie people just have casuals talks ;who married whom, cost of their servants etc.. Could have been made more suspenseful. Some of the scenes find no relevance to the story. The screenplay could have been much better. A one time watch) "},{"Title":"Altman's Whodunit","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman does Agatha Christie as only Altman could.Julian Fellowes wrote the original screenplay for this upstairs/downstairs British murder mystery, but the style and tone is pure Altman. Surely one of the best casts ever assembled for an Altman movie plays the assorted guests and servants staying at a country estate over a weekend, during which the unloved host is murdered. Fellowes tries valiantly to craft a carefully plotted, scripted mystery, taking great care to set up motives, but he's no match for Altman, who predictably couldn't care less about the actual murder mystery and is much more interested in the dynamics between these British aristocrats and the servant class.Gosford Park is a blast, one of Altman's very best. The imposing ensemble includes Kristin Scott Thomas, Maggie Smith, Charles Dance, Michael Gambon and Jeremy Northam as the swells; and Helen Mirren, Eileen Atkins, Clive Owen, Kelly MacDonald, Alan Bates and Derek Jacobi as the servants. Bob Balaban plays a friendly and bumbling American movie producer doing research for a Charlie Chan mystery -- wonder which character Altman most identified with?.....Grade A "}{"Title":"Justice regarding Poverty","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" With this film taking place in the 1930's in Britain, it is obvious that the film is trying to convey the distinction of people in a social status. The whole household is filled with many problems, for all the different people. The upstairs people are terrifically unhappy because they are so worried about their wealth. But, the serving staff is also a mess because there's so much gossip and duties that they don't have time to just relax and enjoy themselves. Upstairs, Sir William and his younger wife, Lady Sylvia, engage in a very relaxed lifestyle of shooting, dinners and parties, and downstairs, while the servants are downstairs and they work endlessly under the command of the butler Mr. Jennings, and the house keeper Mrs. Wilson. The poor and less fortunate are treated horribly in this film, and the motto seems to be, If you're rich you can do whatever the hell you want, but if you're poor you need to slave all day for the rich. This is an unjust way to live and treat the poor, and this movie was made to challenge our society to give them the respect they deserve. There is definitely a hierarchy in the household, especially with the cooks and those who work in the kitchen. There are many times when characters ask each other what job they held previously, and at one time one of the cooks took offense to being called a factory worker. Also, in another part of the film a servant walks through the room where all of the rich are chatting, but when he walks through everyone goes silent. This shows how poorly treated and disrespected they are in culture. A few more examples of the unjust hierarchy in this estate are that the servants' quarters have no windows, everyone sits at the dining table in order of their employers' social rank, and the maids are referred to by their masters' and mistresses' names instead of their own. The wealthiest characters in Gosford Park all have an extremely bias view on the world where they look down upon those who are less wealthy. They aren't respected as well, or treated with as much dignity. It's like the poor in our society today, because we don't value them at all. In the movie, Freddie and Isabelle are interrupted by a footman while in a conversation, and Freddie says, It's nobody. This is just another example of the dehumanizing and unjust treatment of the poor.The only concern that the wealthy characters in the film had was how to obtain more wealth. One main example in the film where money is aggressively sought after is the time when Freddie Nesbitt had finished going through his wife's money, and started an affair with McCordle's daughter, Isabelle, in an attempt to blackmail her and getting her father to find a position for him. He uses the girl because he wants more money, and like every other character in the film he's all about greed. Another example where wealth is the only focus is the time when Sir William and Lady Sylvia cut cards with one of Lady Sylvia's sisters to see who would have the money from the wealthy businessman.In the end of the movie, Sir William is murdered. The 'blame game' goes on inside the estate for quite awhile, until Robert Parks fesses up to Mary that he killed Sir William. But Mary is Parks' mother, and she knew that Parks was eventually going to kill Sir William because he had abandoned Parks at an orphanage as a child, and he abused his workers. The message Gosford Park is getting across is you can be the wealthiest man in the world, but that will not buy you happiness. Sir William was extremely wealthy, but he abused almost everyone that worked for him, and he even abused his son by leaving him to grow up at an orphanage. It all came back to get him in the end, and what we need to take away from this film is that every human being, no matter how rich or poor you are, deserves the same respect and dignity as everyone else in order to achieve a just world.HOW MANY STARS (out of 4)? 1.5 "},{"Title":"Gosford Park Dialog Difficult to Understand","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The dialog in Gosford Park was difficult for me to understand. Perhaps if I was a speaker of British English, it would have been easier, although I think much of the conversation was too hushed to hear. I turned on the English subtitles after a while, and I enjoyed the movie more thereafter, even though I had to continue to read the subtitles throughout the movie. I do think the movie portrayed how the upper class English people viewed and treated their servants in the 1930's in an accurate manner. The servants were portrayed as being present to do one thing only, to cater to their master's every whim and wish. I did enjoy the conversations among the servants when they were away from their master's. "},{"Title":"A comedy without jokes","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gosford park is lot like watching a comedy in which there are no jokes. Which is actually not really a bad thing because the most brilliant comedies can be enjoyed without having to laugh (the first time I watched Peter Seller's Being There I was blown away, but I didn't laugh at any of the jokes).Gosford Park is an upstairs/downstairs murder mystery set in an English manor house. The problem of course is to introduce some twists into this rather old theme, such as the true relationship between the wealthy and the servants, an American film producer and a totally incompetent detective. All played in a comic way, despite the lack of jokes.What we end up with is a movie with little to say about people you just don't really care about, and of course it takes a long to say nothing.Perhaps those who were fans of those old Agatha Christie novels and movies will love this, but to me it was a lot of sauce for too little meat. "},{"Title":"Not a good example of any genre","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not an intriguing mystery, not a good comedy, not a powerful drama, perhaps an accurate and interesting into society and the class structure of 1930's England. I can't fault the ability of the high-class cast, but they didn't have enough good material to allow them to excel. I found the film slow-moving from the outset and it failed to build any momentum. One of only a few films that truly disappointed me, particularly since it did, in fairness, achieve some critical acclaim from others.  "},{"Title":"Want intelligence and wit in cinema?  Visit Gosford Park","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Movies are getting dumber all the time.  We walk into a theater, and put our brains on hold for two hours, yet there still appears, every once in a while, a film that manages to be smart, funny, and literate.  'Gosford Park' is a delight from start to finish, especially for fans of Altman's filmmaking style, or the talented, nearly all Brit ensemble of actors.  The murder mystery plot is definitely secondary to the real story, which is the comparison of the serving class to the leisure class.  Thank you Robert Altman, for continuing to be one of the most dynamic directors, this endeavor ranks just below the masterpiece 'Nashville'.  Thank you Julian Fellowes for an intelligent, witty screenplay that requires a bit of thought, patience, and maturity to really appreciate it.  Thank you to the magnificent Dame Maggie Smith, Helen Mirren, Emily Watson, Alan Bates, Kelly MacDonald, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillipe, Jeremy Northam, Eileen Atkins, etc. for performances that were both entertaining and engrossing.  A thoroughly enjoyable experience.       "},{"Title":"snore fest","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I know Robert Altman's supposed to be a great director-I keep watching his movies expecting to be entertained, and I'm consistently underwhelmed. Everybody talks at the same time (ok-it's kinda cool/realistic, but you gotta turn on the close-captioning to figure out what everybody's mumbling about). There was a lot of actual drama going on. If the movie was done well, I would have cared about it, but it wasn't done well, and I didn't care. I liked the whole behind the scenes of the rich to see what the servants are doing thing. It just seemed totally flat to me-more boring than real life. Good actors, good idea for a movie, the movie LOOKED good, but it was just plain dull.  "},{"Title":"I agree with the people who just don't get it.","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hard to understand the dialog. The murder doesn't seem to have to do with anything. Murder committed to prevent a murder? Murderers presented as sympathetic characters? A character with the sexual mores of a goat? What was the point of the murder, the bumbling police detective, the implied sex, the whole movie?  I know Altman is a fine director, and he had a fine cast and crew, and the movie got a lot of recognition, but I just don't get it. Was it a murder mystery?  A comedy?  A social commentary?  I've read the user comments, but they don't explain a thing.  I think it's a case of it's a great director, a great cast and crew, so it must be a great movie. I would certainly welcome being enlightened.  "},{"Title":"I have no idea what this movie was about","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I heard that this movie was great, but I must have missed something, because I don't even know what it was about.  A bunch of people went to a rich guy's house in England for a weekend.  He got killed, but the police never found the killer.  I think that anyone that says this was a great movie is just trying to impress you.  "},{"Title":"Professor Plum in the parlour with Miss Peacock","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park examines the clockworks of British class society (circa 1930's) through a wry and clever nonstory about a gathering of sundry notables at the manor of an aristocrat for chit-chat and a grouse hunt. Turning the audience into voyeurs, the camera spys on the manor staff as and guests exploring the crusty to the commoner from boudoir to billiard room with endless banter and repartee. A masterpiece of dialogue weaving and filmcrafting, what Gosford Park lacks in story it more than makes up for in elegance of execution as it serves up a sumptuous feast for the more sophisticated film going palate. "},{"Title":"Too much dialogue, too many people, too monotonous","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Typical post 1990 Robert Altman movie.  Let the guy direct, but don't let him write.  Dialogue is supposed to get you somewhere.  Movies are supposed to have suspense and drama and foreshadowing.  I gave up trying to figure out the names and relationships in this movie in the first 20 minutes--there were too many people, too many inter-relationships, and none of it vaguely interesting.  The humorous parts were only humorous as a relief from the doldrums.  Even the murder itself and the discovery of the murder were uninteresting.If you like Scottish, Irish, and English accents and people dressed up in period outifts, you will love this movie.  If you are an ugly American that thinks that movies are more than dressing up and speaking with a foreign accent, then well, go to Starbucks before you go or don't go at all. "}{"Title":"Review Part I (Many Spoilers)","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From my brother, who evidently was quite irked by the film.  Many spoilers below...Gosford ParkFinally, a murder mystery completely devoid of intrigue, suspense or interest!It's about time somebody bad-mouthed this three-hour parade of ennui.Memo to the Academy   You you really, really blew it this time.  Was it not enough to give Robert Altman a best director nod?  Did you have to follow the critics down their misguided path as well?Where to begin?  Well, let's start with the obvious &#150; the film itself. Amazingly boring; intensely uninteresting.  The theory here is `if we put enough characters on the screen maybe no one will notice that NOT A SINGLE ONE IS WORTH STUDYING'.  Robert Altman has done this in several films.  Did you not notice?  Short Cuts immediately comes to mind.  In Short Cuts, Altman wove together thirty characters in four or five dull stories hoping that no one would notice that no single story could stand on it's own. Critics were fooled; audiences were not.There are forty-five (45!) speaking roles in Gosford Park.  For anybody who liked this film, can you tell me honestly 1. was there a single line of memorable dialogue?  2.  was there a character with whom you could spend more than five minutes and not be bored?  3.  was there a tension between any two characters great enough to explore beyond the movie's parameters? (i.e. would you care to see any of these characters interact again, ever? Did you want to follow Elsie's life in London?  Really?  Why?)The plot of the first two hours comes down to two story lines what shirt will Maggie `I'm only going to open my mouth to be abusive' Smith wear to not go hunting?  And is Ryan `Do you know how hard it is to be Max Perlich from Maverick?' Phillippe really a valet?  The answer to both questions `who cares?'This is the first film I'd ever seen in which there was hidden sex, only to find out that when we knew who was engaged in the sex, I'd rather it had stayed hidden.How do you sell this thing to an outsider?`Gosford Park is a murder mystery.' `OK, whodunit?' `The film isn't clear on that point, nor does it want to be.  The why is given, but almost no one seems to care about the whom, including the inspector.  Neither is there resolution of the crime.  There are also far too many suspects.' `So, uh, it isn't really a murder mystery.' `No.' `So, what's it about, then?' `Well, a cast of dozens, literally, goes to this big English country house for a hunting party.  It's set in the 1932.' `Why 1932?' `Theory is that it was a time of marked decline in the English empire; but such seems irrelevant.  It could have been 1732,1832 or 1992, and you'd get the same result.' `Is it about this hunting stuff?' `Not especially.  At it's core, it's about servant-master relationships.' `So, there a lot of servant-master issues going on, right?' `Sort of.  You see, while it should be about such, the servants almost all in unison get down on this one American who is playing the part of a servant without being one&#133;they obviously take pride rather than scorn at their positions.  It's an English thing.' `Ah, so we put down Americans, then.  Is it funny?' `No, not really.  There's some comic relief about a Hollywood producer of Charlie Chan films, but it doesn't really work.  There also open scorn of a notable Hollywood actor, but as the servants to a person are smitten with him, that doesn't really work either.' `The murderee deserves it, right?' `Oh, he sure does.' `So, the crime is worth the admission.' `No, it's kind of anticlimactic, too.  The violent portion is an attack on a corpse.  Also, while one can sympathize with the murder; it's hard to sympathize with any single character.  You'd have to see it to understand.' `And why would I do that? `I have no idea.'The minute I can make my own films, this English quiet-underlying tension scam tripe will be my first effort.  If these are the standards, how hard can it be to make a winner?Look, I know you think I'm joking here, but try this treatment  English castle, 1880s.  Why the 1880s?  It doesn't matter; it's all English history, therefore it was all worthy of note, apparently.  There's a love triangle between the Duke or Baron or whatever, a Noble Lady of some sort and a stable hand.  Now, meanwhile, there's some sort of conflict involving either the legitimacy of the Duke's title or the rightful owners of the Castle &#150; some sort of German royalty who have returned post marriage to reclaim an English title.  Throw in some looks at parliament, some big foofy dresses and about ten random servant characters with various stances on how they feel about royalty and you've got yourself a movie.Do you see how easy it is?  That was off the top of my head, and yet snotty English folk and Anglophiles would line up around the block to see it.BUT THAT DOESN'T MAKE IT ANY GOOD.  And while the plot I described is three times more involving than Gosford Park, that doesn't make it worth seeing, either.   Not without something on screen that doesn't bore you, at least. "},{"Title":"A COMPLETE BORE!!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  No offense to those who found this movie to be brilliant--but I got nothing!  I haven't seen any of Altman's past work.  I only know him by reputation.  He is known to be a very talented filmmaker--at least that's what most people believe--who specializes in films that contain an ensemble of characters.  Well, if I gave a damn about any of these characters, I wouldn't hold anything against Altman.  But none of these characters--except for Maggie Smith's, slightly--engaged me.  The movie is about two hours and fifteen minutes and feels like an eternity.  It's like watching a stage play--a very boring one.  The characters talk and talk and talk and talk some more.  So it is a dialogue-driven piece.  Even dialogue-driven pieces often have some visual eye candy, though not in abundance.  Anybody who has read a book on Screenwriting knows that audiences do not want to see talking heads!  OK, there are movies like American Buffalo and The Big Kahuna which are both based on plays and contain lots of talking heads, but the acting is so powerful in those movies that I didn't feel nearly as claustrophobic as I did when watching Gosford Park.  Now, the cast is definitely full of talent.  As my Dad said--and he's pretty much right--most of our greatest actors come from England.  And many of those great English actors are in this movie  Helen Mirren, Maggie Smith, Jeremy Northam, Kristen Scott Thomas, etc.  But their characters are so dull that they really didn't have much to work with.  But I do have to say--and this is just me--that the English accents are thick and sometimes quite hard to understand.  Of course, if this movie didn't depend too much on dialogue, I could still catch on to the story.  But since it does, I had a hard time keeping track of the story.  I was at the point where I was struggling to stay awake and about halfway through I didn't even bother trying to figure it out.  The humor is quite bland.  Once again, maybe it's just because I'm American and I don't share the English mentality.  Though I've seen a fair deal of funny English comedies, let's face it--there are always certain things that are funny to one ethnic group, and not funny to others.  So I'll give the comedy element the benefit of the doubt.  If this were an American movie and it wasn't funny--I have the right to say it's not funny.  I'd rather keep an open mind.  However, Maggie Smith has a few funny lines.  I like the scene in which Bob Balaban, who plays a hotshot Hollywood director, is about to pitch the story for his new movie, but he doesn't want to give anything away.  Smith comments, It's OK.  We're not gonna see it anyway.  I wouldn't exactly say that she deserves an Oscar for her role, but she is the one person who actually breathed some life into this film and I commend her.    This is basically supposed to be a mystery/thriller, and it could've been much more intriguing.  That's why I compare this movie to a boring, monotonous college professor giving a lecture  You know that whatever he's teaching can be fun and exciting, but it's delivered in such a deadpan fashion that no one cares to listen--or in this case, watch. Maybe the artistic quality of this film completely flew over my head; maybe not.  You be the judge.  I'm just giving my honest, unpretentious opinion.  If you want to see something deep and compelling, and keeps you interested, I suggest you buy a ticket for In the Bedroom.  But if you find Masterpiece Theater moving and thought-provoking, you'll probably have a ball with Gosford Park.My score  3 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Be warned!!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wish I had read the comments before I went to see Gosford Park.Everyone who commented on the difficulty in understanding the actors was absolutely correct.  It's more than just the British accents, it's actors mumbling their lines, and poor sound quality overall.  It was extremely difficult hearing the actors, not to mention trying to keep track of who's who. I frequently watch British films and television shows and my ears are quite familiar with British accents, so that was not the issue as some comments have mentioned. Be warned that you will be in for hard work trying to follow the storyline. I haven't been this disappointed and let-down about a movie in a long time. What a waste! "},{"Title":"Predictable and tedious","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see Gosford Park knowing absolutely nothing about it.  All I knew was that it had good reviews.  I didn't even know it was a whodunnit. Nevertheless, this movie was so formulaic that even before anyone was killed, I had solved the mystery.  In fact, I knew who would die, how, why, and at whose hand. Given the fact that the first hour or so of the film is a very boring introduction to a bunch of uninteresting characters, and the rest devoted to 'revealing' the killer, I can't imagine spending more tedious time watching a film.  No wait; I can.  I've seen Unbreakable. "},{"Title":"7.7 what is wrong with you voters!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My wife picked this one!  Boring, more boring, and even more boring describes this dog of a film.  Why most the scenes where even shot is a mystery as they added nothing to the story. It shows one the different class structure which still exists today.  I am glad I did not waste my money and see it in the theatre.  The previews were deceiving; it made it look like the game clue.  I thought from the previews it would of been more exciting.  I was sure wrong. Avoid this one at all costs. 2/10 "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All things been said before.Try Ivory remains of the day.So much money for a director long without new ideas.Pity. As for actors very good performances. But that does not save a mediocre film "},{"Title":"Um, Did I miss something?","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Others have basically voiced my opinion so I won't go on...BUT...this movie was,  let's see, what's the word? Awful...absolutely awful...I had a hard time finding the  plot...was there one? I think if you have to introduce characters for an hour you  either have too many characters or you need to find a director who can explain it  all more efficiently. And I forget, did someone get murdered? That seemed to be  kind of just thrown in there for kicks. I was so incredibly bored I had to watch it in  three sittings. I would NOT recommend this movie...2/10 "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gosford Park was, by far, the worst movie I have ever seen.  It is far too long, there are way too many characters, and I solved the mystery as it was happening.  I can't believe I wasted over two hours of my life on such filth, not to mention the $7.50 I will never see again. If you are intelligent, you will NOT waste your time on this movie.  "},{"Title":"I walked out on this one!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While many of you have sung the praises of Robert Altman for Gosford Park, I cannot see why. The movie was very slow and boring. The dialogue just dragged. I was expecting the movie to pick up after the murder but again the pace slowed. A suggestion for altman you should have used John Cleese as the detective at least he can act like a buffoon. My wife who is a great fan of Mysteries asked if we could leave I could only be to happy to comply! "},{"Title":"Pain","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie made my head hurt. It was the slowest and most bland movie I have ever seen. Believe me I have sat through some stink-burgers in my movie watching career but this one is the icing on the cake. Boring !!! The story goes nowhere! Just pain, thats all you get from this movie. Upper class yuppies with no taste should love it. "}{"Title":"Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren do their best...","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...but can't save the film from the disaster it is. I'm flabbergasted to see it got nominated for Best Picture. Gosford Park is a dull period piece that never comes together. It struggles with too many characters fighting for screen time making the film longer than it needs to be. But the huge flaw here is the editing. I felt like the editor was trying to distance the audience from the story. That made the film deadening. The direction didn't help the distance either. I felt so far away from these characters and what was going on. There were two performances stand-out performances from this over-sized cast, Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren. They brought to life the words on the page and the footage in the editing room. Smith more than Mirren with her quick wits, though. They at least kept me awake. I wanted to like this movie. It was set-up perfectly for me, but just didn't deliver. A huge disappointment; 4 "},{"Title":"Loss of direction","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Gosford Park' takes place in an English country estate, and it is a very social film relating to the different classes and the characters of each class. The film seems to follow more on the servants and pokes a little more fun at the upper classes. The film is really like a 'murder mystery night' and the mystery is discussed through the different characters.Although there was a good original idea behind the film and there were some talented actors and actresses, the film suffered from too many characters and events that really had little or nothing to do with the plot. The film just seemed to be a portal into the social behaviours of the different classes at the country estate. There did not seem to be a clear 'reason' for anything happening on screen. It had some good things going for it, but I think direction was lost. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated but soporific study of the British aristocracy","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  R. Altman enjoyed himself painting a colorful portray of a bunch of aristocrats & their servants with a lot of subtlety so that you realize how human, i.e. grey (not black or white), both worlds are.....Though beautifully filmed, the sly satire is not very effective because you feel completely lost in the confusion of so many characters you don't have time to know. It is not a typical storytelling with a hero or a murder mystery. It is certainly inventive but at the end, you feel a bit twisted  because the film ends in the middle of .......the end, i.e. what's the point of all this ? !!  In My opinion, 8 femmes of Ozon looks far less pretentious and is certainly far more captivating as a cynical portrait of a class, and has more suspense and appeal in the murder mystery.To sum up  An ethnological portray of a bunch of aristocrats & their servants, served by an original but boring storytelling. "},{"Title":"Not close to Altman's best","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've admired Robert Altman movies my entire life.  Saw Nashville when I was 15, 3 Women two years after that, and so on.  This rates above Ready to Wear and A Wedding but beneath the aforementioned and The Player and Images.  Cast is a huge plus but for me the standouts were Ryan Phillippe and Clive Owen.  Clive is especially important to the plot so I was glad he was able to stand out, somewhat, from his co-stars.  I didn't enjoy Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren nearly as much as I normally do.  Mirren was in Greenfingers with Clive and was a total delight in that little-seen masterpiece and much more enjoyable there.  I can see why Jennifer Connelly pretty much won all the Supporting Actress awards last year, at least compared w/these two performances.Its not that its a bad movie, its just not that great.  Its at least 1/3 hour too long and not the 'whodunit' I was expecting.  I wish there was a 'whodunit' that gave the audience an actual chance to figure out 'who' without being a mindreader.  Here there is not a chance in the world you can possibly manage to figure it out.  7/10. "},{"Title":"as mysterious as the brain of a cockroach","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, where to I start... I guess the most important thing that comes to mind in connection with this movie is that it is NOT, NEVER ANY SORT OF DETECTIVE STORY. NEVER. In terms of prioritizing, the mystery-solving element or suspense is in the umpteenth place. It is almost completely IRRELEVANT here, because by the time something does start to happen in this flick(idle talk aside) it is way past the midpoint. I kept wondering when will it start, when will it actually start, when will somebody do something AT LAST???. But it was hopeless - a detective story it was not to be, but just a neverending sequence of idle aristocratic talk about NOTHING (plain gossip for the most part) set in some rural estate somewhere in time. On a bright side, though, is the cast - it is impressive, performances are good, natural, and believable - we must stay honest and give the makers credit for that. But again, otherwise this film is a complete waste of time, unless of course gossip, meaningless talk and details of servants' way of life is what you look for in a detective story. My mark is 3 for one and only reason - acting (the only ray of light here). Other than that it was BOREDOM epitomized. "},{"Title":"terrific movie that fits into comedy, suspense and mystery categories","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I loved this film! I've watched it several times and find something new to the plot each time. You really have to pay attention because one line will reveal a secret about a character that is crucial to the story. I put on subtitles and learned so many details I had missed before. This movie is not for anyone who doesn't like subtle English humor or intricate plots. The DVD has many extras, like how they managed to stay accurate to the English country manor life and how the servants' lives are so intricately ordered. It helped me understand the movie much more because I was pretty clueless on how rigid the class rules were for the upstairs/downstairs order. I also hadn't understood how specific each servant's job was and that helping wasn't allowed across job descriptions. It was also interesting to see how much scrambling was done to secure positions of power in the hierarchy of downstairs. "},{"Title":"Great story - poorly executed. Farce? Drama? Mystery? What?","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Way too many pseudo-clever British takeoffs. The story had great potential, but it was buried in a hodgepodge of pointless sub-text which gave little chance for the main characters to be characterized.The inspector was ridiculous but he was obviously supposed to be, this was one more example of how to bury a good mystery buried in a pointlessly overdone movie with a production that reeked of Architectual Indigestion.All that remained, was the oh, too obvious, conclusion, which was stupidly hinted at throughout the film.Good talent and a good story sufferd from a poor script and an even worse production. "},{"Title":"Badly Written, Overacted And Insufferably Snooty Rubbish","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" One weekend in 1932, various family members, guests and celebrities gather at the house of Sir William McCordle, but the party is adjourned when he is found murdered.I bloody well hate costume-dramas; nothing ever happens, I can never identify with any of the characters and they're always interminably long and boring. This one tries to make itself more interesting by adding a murder plot, but it's so lame and shoddily executed it makes the movie even worse. Its chief technique is to divide the cast into the gentry in their elegant drawing-rooms and their servants in the dusty hallways beneath, which would be an original idea if it didn't happen to be the main theme of the (much superior) seventies television series Upstairs Downstairs. This device serves as an excuse for over two hours of people gossiping about each other whilst nothing happens and overrated actors ham it up with hackneyed props and eccentricities (Gambon has a spoilt dog, Dance is deaf, Fry has a big pipe, Bates is a drunk, and so on). Like all bad films, it isn't entirely without virtue - it is elegantly shot, and Mirren, MacDonald and Owen all give good performances. Based on an idea by producers Altman and Balaban, with exteriors shot at Syon House in south-west London. Unbelievably, this won an Oscar for Best Screenplay - I've read food packaging labels with more wit and storyline than this script. This movie typifies everything that's wrong with stuffy British colonial costume-dramas about toffs - it's passionless, dull as dishwater, goes on forever and looks exactly the same as every other such movie. For more refined and cultured film entertainment, check out Slave Girls From Beyond Infinity instead. "},{"Title":"Overrated, as usual","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I figured I would give  Robert Altman one more chance.  His other films have always struck me as dull and pretentious.  Despite fine performances by Maggie Smith (at least not wasted her as opposed to the Harry Potter films) and a few other familiar faces, the movie is slow, muddled and a bit cold. The murder mystery is not much of a mystery, the characters are generally unsympathetic, and the mumbling is so bad that I had to turn on the subtitles on my DVD to get everything.The end result is a too-familiar film, one that echoes half of the BBC and PBs's output since 1969, but with a better budget.  There is some slight wit in the screenplay, and the soundtrack is nice.  But people in search of a good mystery would be better off reading a Peter Wimsey book or tracking down the David Suchet Poirot series, and anyone looking for a drama set in the land of the British snob might as well just revisit Brideshead again. "},{"Title":"Boring and pointless","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An Agatha Christie style movie with nothing whatsoever which would make it interesting. No plot, and tons of script lines that add nothing to the story but only work for the viewer's sleeping problems. Avoid it. "}{"Title":"Blah, Blah......","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Blah, blah, blah....what did he or she say? That about sums up the movie for me. I didn't get into this movie at all. With the critics it was getting I was anxious to see it but after 15 minutes of watching it I was ready to fall asleep. It's one of those movies I guess that either you love it or you hate it. "},{"Title":"An annoyingly slow film.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Indeed great efforts have been made to create the film's imposing atmosphere. Credits should also be given to the convincing -only occasionally bombastic-performance of most of the actors/actresses.But who can really account for the sadistically slow progression of the plot? We may be aware of the basic cinematographic and literary device of retarding the flow of events, but exceeding the limits of that technique is bound to bring about sheer boredom. To make matters worse, an initially sporadic and gradually frequent lack of coherence resulted in the film's fragmentation and in a feeling of confusion and profound discontent.Embitterment will haunt you for a while after watching the movie, but then it will disappear into oblivion.  "},{"Title":"Yawn zzzzzzzzz is it finished yet?","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was looking forward to watching Gosford Park because it is years since i watched a Who Dunnit movie and after watching this i wasn't thinking  Who Dunnit ? but instead Why did they bother doing it! Bring back Agatha Christie all is forgiven. Having sat through the first hour of this and being bored silly in the process i was prepared to give the next hour and 15 minutes a chance because after all i was going to see a good murder mystery wasnt i? Wrong!!!! Nothing happened. Nothing at all. we got some silly story about an orphened boy. No Professor plum with the rope in the study . The only plus point from the film is the performance from Maggie Smith.And thats all. Nothing else to say except why did i waste 130 minutes of my life on this? 4 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Ugh - false advertising warning","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was advertised as a funny mystery movie.  What I saw was a long, drawn-out pseudo-mystery.  Absolutely nothing interesting happens until the movie is over half over and then it becomes anti-climactic.  The dialog is boring and hard to follow.  The accents are thick and the volume is low. The result is basically a boring version of a reality TV show.If you are interested in a character study, it's OK.  If you are interested in a funny mystery...avoid it. "},{"Title":"How did anyone manage to stay awake through this?","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman's best work (Nashville) has been through looking at multiple different characters and putting them all together in a crazy mosaic.This looks at two classes of characters (1930s upper and servant classes) and doing the same. The problem arises from the fact that there aren't a lot of differences between members of the different classes, so the characters never emerge as truly different.Overall, an excellent sleep aid. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman Tries His Hand at Masterpiece Theater","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The English countryside is pretty, and from a historical perspective the look at the inner workings of an early 20th Century British aristocrat's country manor during a weekend shooting party is mildly intriguing, but the bloated cast, snail-paced storyline, incoherent mumbled conversations and easily telegraphed plot twists make for a dismal entertainment experience.  The actual mystery takes up only a very small part of the film, which is severely overweighted by what turns out to be thoroughly useless character and situation set-up.  (In fact, this very brief part of the story seems to be from a different movie altogether- and indeed, a much more interesting one). The resolution, to use this term very generously, is very rushed and incomplete.  How this can be described as a comedy by any means is beyond me.  Gosford Park is not a complete waste of time, but only barely so. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but great fun to watch and enjoy.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As critic Ebert accurately says, you watch this film as a comedy and enjoy it for the interplay among the characters, not for a particularly good story. In fact, the end of the story is mainly anti-climactic. This film explores the British class system in 1932 as it was about to dissolve. The DVD is superb, and one extra has interviews with several men and women who were in the service profession in England in the 1930s, and who were consultants to Altman to assure terminology and practices were portrayed authentically in the film.some SPOILERS -- Rich baron (Michael Gambon, of Longitude fame) invites a large group to his manor for a pheasant shoot the next day. As we learn of all the guests, and all the servers, and their stories, we also learn what a scoundrel the baron has been all his life, that his marriage (Kristin Scott Thomas) is a sham, that maybe half the people there have a motive to see him dead. The first 2/3 of the film just introduces the customs and characters and sets up the end. The murder is committed. We correctly note that it was a poisoned drink that kills him, but we later see a knife stuck into his chest. But, as the otherwise bumbling inspector (Steven Ray of Wilde fame)notes, a dead man doesn't bleed.  The inspector never solves the murder, but one of the sercice staff does, and confronts the perpetrators. But in the end, What difference does it make?The film is a comedy, albiet a somewhat dark one, but the fun is in watching the interplay among characters. "},{"Title":"Tedious and Poor Imitation of British Movie of Manners","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The dialogue was hard to follow, partly because of the British accents and poor sound work.The story line was muddled at best.It was so bad that a couple who sat behind us both fell asleep and snored through the last quarter of the movie (and this is no exaggeration).  Because I agreed with their de facto judgment that the movie was boring, I didn't have the heart to wake them up. "},{"Title":"Hmm... what was so great?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In one word, if I have to describe - disappointment.  Understood, there was a satire of the English class structure, and some good acting by English actors, but that is all there is to it.  The number of characters kept increasing and you get caught up trying to keep up, which is very disconcerting, and takes your mind off of the actual subtleties which would probably make this movie a little more worthwhile than it actually is.But, it was a drag with very little plot, which is plain boring and tedious! The two things missing were the lush scenery that I have come to expect of a period setting movie, and the mystery that it was described as.There is so much hype, and so little in this movie, to warrant it.  I would wait for the DVD when it is rent one get one free, if I had to do it again.  "},{"Title":"don't drink and watch this movie","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" my friend kept talking about this movie, and over a bottle of Tremens, we followed up the movie Elf with this one.before you judge, Elf is usually not my style because i had avoided seeing it for a year and a half, because i find most comedies to be kind of pointless these days....nevermind. back to Godawful Park I was wide awake for the entire run of the movie. I stared directly at the screen for most of the time. Still, I can't tell you what happened. All I know is that somebody killed Dumbledore and Oscar Wilde showed up to solve the crime.that actually would have been a much better movie.in most movies like this, the murder comes somewhere around the end of the first act. instead, we have to endure rich English-types being snobs and the waitstaff gossiping as they wash plates for nearly 1.5 hours. then, there was some amusement when one waiter got back at somebody by intentionally dropping coffee in their lap.i lived in the UK for a brief period of time and can decipher various accents, but since the dialogue overlaps and is drowned out by other noise, it doesn't exactly help. what's the point in having a murder-mystery if you aren't at least going to let the audience figure out enough of what's going on so they can at least feel like they've engaged themselves with the story? i figure that most people who actually enjoy this movie are the same people who are on the lookout for ultra-trendy activities to impress their friends with (such as those who went out and stocked up on Pinot Noir after Sideways) and probably all went out to dinner murder/mystery parties after they saw this movie. "}{"Title":"The Usual Altman Experience. (spoilers)","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Altman movies must be an acquired taste. I've seen several so far and it's always the same thing. Lured by a huge cast of big names, but bored to the bone that a story that is entirely too long and in dire need of better editing. Godsford Park, at least for me, is just more of the same.Though pieced together by numerous subplots (as is Altman's style), the primary story is that of a murder mystery slowly unraveling at an English manor in the 1930s. Greed and murder, and the social distinctions that perpetrate the mistrust among the guests and the servants are fine ingredients for a 'Whodunnit' in this film, but never create much suspense. Long scenes and mostly improv dialog are more like a recipe for boredom (at least in my case) and the events unfold about as slowly and anti-climatic as they would in real life. Congrats, however, to amazing art direction (both the costume and sets) which painstakingly recreates an eerie 1930s atmosphere which would have provided a tremendous setting for a more entertaining tale of corruption and deceit.Though disappointed with once again being muddled in ambiguity and tirelessly slow moving scenes for me, this may be a good film for you if you like Altman's consistency of style. "},{"Title":"Stately pile","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone grows old. Even Altman. That isn't to say one of cinema's greatest masters has gone senile. . . but it does flag up the fact that 'Gosford Park' is, well, geriatric.The subject matter was never going to provide the edge of M.A.S.H or the wide sweep of Nashville. But it could (and should) have been much, much better.An 'Upstairs, Downstairs' reworking on the back of a pointless murder mystery, Gosford is as over-blown as it is over-praised. Altman's usual cinematic mechanics are all there, of course the flowing camera work, the multi-narrative tracking. But here though, that's exactly what they are mechanical. And. . . They don't work.Halfway thru the movie it's still difficult to figure out precisely who is who. Worse though, it's difficult to care, and as the script lurches downhill into one improbability after another an overwhelming sensation of boredom sets in, precipitated as much by the absence of plot credibility as character credibility there are some in this ensemble with less substance than cardboard.An overload of any element in any movie is never a good thing, and 'Gosford Park' plainly bears it out the cream of British acting may be present, but it's a cream that pretty soon curdles.At the end, then, one is drawn to the conclusion that the work of Altman and his collaborators is uncomfortably close to its subject matter, because the eponymous Gosford Park is, in British parlance, a stately pile, slowly mouldering away. . .As, indeed, is the movie. Rating 3/10. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time and talent","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A good indicator that Oscar voters have a perverse sense of humor. Undoubtedly if anyone but Robert Altman had perpetrated this film, it would have immediately fallen into oblivion.  A group of dreadfully uninteresting people gather at a 1930s English country manor, where the gossip is only momentarily halted by murder.  The film was marketed as a slightly comedic whodunnit, but there is nary a laugh to be had and the whodunnit seems almost an afterthought.  Even the view of social mores and how the working class were forced to vicariously live through the scandal provided by their betters feels like warmed-over Upstairs Downstairs.  Altman fans will probably be rabid in its defense, but there is really no legitimate reason for its being.  While it is somewhat amazing that Altman is able to introduce so many characters and keep a multi-tiered narrative from falling into total confusion, he has managed to do this in far more compelling films.  It takes virtually an hour to figure out who is who and by that point we realize that we would not want to know any of these people.  When the murder finally occurs, the characters are so unimpressed that there is no reason for the viewer to care either.  Incredibly, the older actors come off worse than the younger.  Clive Owen, Kelly McDonald and Ryan Phillipe (usually horrible) are decent in ill-defined roles.  Emily Watson provides the only full-bodied performance of the lot as a wronged maid.  Veterans like Alan Bates, Richard E. Grant and Derek Jacobi, among others, are virtually wasted.  Stephen Fry shows up two-thirds in as a bumbling inspector and not only seems to have walked on-set from another film altogether, but is embarrassingly bad to boot.  Of the Oscar nominees, Helen Mirren's nod is puzzling since she virtually plays an automaton for the duration of the film as a stoic head housekeeper, and Maggie Smith's acid-tongued shrew is surprisingly joyless and downright obnoxious.  The film fails as social commentary, fails at drama, fails at comedy and fails at mystery. And were Altman fans to be honest with themselves, I doubt very many of them would rank this high in his pantheon of cinematic work. "},{"Title":"It Put Me To Sleep - Three Times","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having heard many good things about it, I was really looking forward to seeing this movie, but having seen it, I'm not sure where the good reviews came from.Folks, this movie is boring. There's no other word for it. It's supposed to be a murder mystery, yet you have to struggle through at least two thirds of the story before anyone is killed. Instead, the characters get developed. And developed. And developed. Not that any of them are especially interesting - but they need to be developed apparently. And developed. And developed. Sorry, I've mentioned that they get developed, haven't I? And developed ....I struggled to stay awake through the whole thing (and lost the battle at least three times.) There's a positive thing about this it's a guaranteed cure for insomnia. I missed the end (I had fallen asleep) but my viewing companions told me that the end made no more sense than anything else in this turkey.The only thing I liked? I thought Inspector Thompson (Stephen Fry) was quite funny. I'll grant that much. But for his small part in the movie, it's not worth the effort.2/10  "},{"Title":"The Most Pathetic Movie of 2001","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the only movie I've seen in the cinema (and I've seen many), that I actually walked out of the theatre. I was so bored, it was painful. The first 45 minutes were excruciating with really bad dialogue - not a single line of any wit or interest. It was supposed to be a comedy. No one in the theatre laughed at any point. After the murder finally occurred, I thought things would pick up. But they didn't. With all the new technology out there in the electronics and photography industry, this movie looked like it was filmed with a 1960's camera - the resolution was dull and gray. The actors themselves seemed like they were sleepwalking. No energy, no emotion, no interesting conversation or characters. Boring, lifeless, apathetic drizzle. 2/10 "},{"Title":"pass the coffee","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Witty performances demand close attention.  But if you're tired and not wired on coffee, I'd recommend staying away from this.  The image of the mansion as a landlocked white whale, Maggie Smith' performance, and an occasional poke in the ribs from my neighbor were the only things that cut through my pleasant snoring. "},{"Title":"Long, Boring, Dull","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie because of all the great reviews here.I will never listen to you guys again! This movie was a 2 hour bore! It was terrible! A bunch of boring English people talking about boring things and the last 30 minutes were supposed to be some murder mystery that turned out to be not very mysterious at all. Rating 2/10  "},{"Title":"Review Part II (More Spoilers)","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Part II of the review from my brother, still quite irked.  More spoilers below...This film is well over two hours long.  That's quite a time for nothing to happen or intrigue the mind.  Look, I don't need an action film here, but even Merchant-Ivory films have some tense undercurrents that one can relate to.  This is the first film since Accidental Tourist in which, in retrospect, I'd wished I'd slept through.  (And that includes Pearl Harbor).Now the big question, voters why did you nominate this film for best picture?  You know that there are standards involved here.   What were you people thinking?  Let me guess.  The critics loved it.  That they did. Why? Who can say?  Robert Altman has become the Bob Dylan of movies  if you're a rebel long enough, apparently, you turn into an icon.  It doesn't make your crap any better, it just makes it `legitimate'.  Do something remotely mainstream, and people hurl awards at you, like Clint Eastwood for Unforgiven.  The English loved it.  Well, of course they did, but is that an excuse?  There's servants, there's masters, there's random English history, there's put downs of Americans and American culture.  What more would an Englishman want?The selection of Gosford Park for Best Picture represents the absolute worst of such selections overlong, over involved and yet curiously standoffish and without tension, stuffy, set in another era for no apparent reason. It's like this garbage contains all of the nominated clichés, without any of the things that make Best Pictures worth the nomination.You don't seem to realize the implications here &#150; every year, generally, there are about one to three truly outstanding pictures to fill five Best Picture slots.  (Last year there were zero, but that's another story.) Take this year for example  the odds that either Lord of the Rings or Beautiful Mind will take Best Picture are about 95%.  After that, it's a matter of taste.  The remaining three fill two purposes 1.  They give that Chariots of Fire hope to films that should be just happy for the nomination, but more importantly, 2. they send a message from Academy to Hollywood that tells what kind of films we'd like to see more often.Last year was a perfect case in point &#150; Traffic and Gladiator were considered the heavys.  Erin Brockovich, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Chocolat were fillers.  Not a single one of the five was a great film, which only further illustrates the point that such is a forum for voters to send messages to Hollywood.  Erin Brockovich, the blandest offering, was clearly the benchmark here.  This film was not even Steven Soderbergh's best work of 2000; it stood no chance of getting the Best Picture award.  But do you see the statement it makes?  There were several other films in the Brockovich category good, not great &#150; Cast Away, Almost Famous, You Can Count on Me, O Brother Where Art Thou?, Wonder Boys.   Even now, if you made the claim that any one of these was the actual nominee, only the `Beat the Geeks' movie guy will call you on it.  What do you get out of Erin Brockovich?  Well, you make the statement that you'd like to see stronger women's roles, more David v. Goliath stories and more happy endings in Hollywood.  You see how that works?This was a down year for film.  That all is very clear.  But that doesn't make this right; there were other choices.  You picked Moulin Rouge!, a pick that makes the disturbing statement that John Leguizamo actually contributed to a Best Picture nominee.  The direction was all over the map and the cuts were relentless, but at least that film was something new.   Look at the other available choices Memento, The Royal Tenenbaums, Amelie.  These all received writing nominations, so you guys obviously liked them.  Think of what a far superior statement you make in giving one of these films the nod. You don't have to go for the obvious also-rans either.  You could have selected the insipid Shrek, or Waking Life, a film just about 1,000 times more fascinating than Gosford Park.You didn't have to go obvious and you didn't have to appease Robert Altman with anything more than an undeserved Best Director nomination.Even if you loved it,you must admit Gosford Park is clearly the blandest Best Picture of 2001; the Erin Brockovich of the 74th awards.  So what message are you sending here?  `We want more movies with dozens of amorphous characters, little plot and only underlying screen tension, but no real conflict.'  What a message.  Shame on you.Look, IT IS OK TO HATE THIS FILM.  It wasn't that good.  You don't have to give in to the English or critics.Oh, and the choices of Maggie Smith and Helen Mirren for nominations couldn't be less inspired, but that's another issue.One star. "},{"Title":"The dialogue did not cross the Atlantic successfully.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why do modern British movie makers insist that their actors employ dialects that cannot be understood on this side of the Atlantic? There was a huge cast of about 30 major parts, some played by very famous actors.  What most of them had in common was their speech delivery, a combination of mumbling and slurred speech that was impossible to follow even with the theatre microphones turned up to a painfully loud volume. As is typical of the modern British movie, the first 20 minutes failed to grab my attention and failed to clarify plot development. Most of the story was told in narrative fragments inserted throughout the movie, with very little important action taking place on screen. Because the dialogue was not understandable on this side of the Atlantic, or at least by me, I could not follow the plot.There are occasional recent British made movies that can be understood on this side of the Atlantic, but they are the exception. It is even rarer to find a recent British movie that grabs the viewer's attention at the start as the 1947 Great Expectations with John Mills and Hitchcock's 1940Rebecca do. The introduction of the DVD with English subtitles partially solves the first problem, but it can do little to to get the story going.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Altman is one of my favorite directors of all time and his Player (1992) starring Tim Robbins is a great dark satire of the film industry. He's a great genre-swapper and so I expected quite a bit from Gosford Park, which I pictured as an Agatha Christie-style period piece.The movie stars Weese Ritherspoon's husband, Ryan Phillipe, from Cruel Intentions. That should say something about its acting right off the bat -- mediocre, to say the least. There are a few fine performances, but the bad ones drag them all down.The mystery elements of the story are very poor. Instead of building up an atmospheric thriller Altman examines the characters like he's doing Nashville Redux or something -- no offense but I didn't go see this to see a realistic depiction of different classes of society in a mansion, I went to go see a murder mystery as was promised on the ads and in that respect I was sorely disappointed.Overall I'd have to say this is one of Altman's weakest and most pretentious films -- it's a huge disappointment and a rather banal example of Altman's typically reliable directorial style.Non-fans of Altman might like it, but I suspect most of his die-hard followers will find it a dubious title in his resume. "}{"Title":"good if you like confusing and slow movies","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all I have to mention that I am not an Altman fan.  I find his movies confusing, slow, boring, and basically unwatchable.  I love film in general, but for some reason I can't seem to appreciate Altman's work.  I found this movie, especially, like all his other movies confusing, boring, slow, and not worth the time it took to watch the movie.  That's just my opinion on it, and I'm sure people will disagree with me and call his films works of art, but I'd rather spend my time watching a film where I can at least understand the dialogue.   "},{"Title":"Horrid putrid trash","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Do not see this movie it is 2hrs of your life you will never have back.  I see about a movie a week at the theaters and if I had driven to the theater instead of ridden with a friend a would have left.  This is boring, boring, boring.  The acting was sub-par the direction was pathetic, the script was confusing at best.  It seems a shame that the Oscars will waste nominations on trash like this. I rank this with Wing Commander, Battlefield Earth, and Universal Soldier 2.   "},{"Title":"What an over-hyped waste of talent!","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" For all those who thought this over-talky ensemble piece was anything other than pure recycled drivel, I have three words for you Upstairs Downstairs and Mystery.Want a truly compelling character study of the class differences of the English upper crust versus those who serve them? Go out and rent/borrow/buy the Masterpiece Theatre classic Upstairs Downstairs. Ten minutes of that production will shame all two hours of Altman's shallow storytelling.And as for suspense, please, if you found the twist in this movie the least bit compelling, simply turn on your TV on any given Thursday night (if you are an American) to the local PBS channel and watch an episode of Mystery. Doesn't matter which Mystery show it is, any one will do to totally outshine the paper-thin plotting of this movie.The truly sad part about this movie is the sheer sense of what could have been. It would be one thing if the movie was made up of a bunch of newbies or also-rans or never-weres, but its not. On paper, this movie should rock. Its a multi-generational cross-section of some of the best talent from the UK. If casting alone could carry a movie, an Anglophile like myself would easily be giving this flick a 10. But alas....Never has so much talent been given so little to work with and ended up with so few positive results.And the fact that this uncompelling mess was hailed as the second coming of movie-going experiences...it just leaves me scratching my head. "},{"Title":"Watching paint dry is excitement by comparison.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love most of the very talented actors in Gosford Park, but this film rates as one of the most boring movies I have ever seen. This is supposed to be a murder mystery. Watching paint dry for three hours would be a more exciting way of spending one's time. The promised murder seemed forever in coming, and the only mystery is how this agonizingly dull drama rates a high score at the IMdB. I can't remember the last time I abandoned a movie before it ended, but I gave up on this one. It was a mercy killing. Even Stephen Fry's entrance (finally!) couldn't spark my interest to plod on through this misery. "},{"Title":"It was basically of film in which what little action there is is secondary to the dialogue.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't know if I should be responding to the film as a comedy or as a drama. There are, of course, elements of both in it. In many scenes, I felt the focus was on the interaction between the English nobility and the serving class, with the American film producer Weissman as a foil since he belonged to neither. Other scenes, however seemed to set the audience up for the traditional who done it thriller with a surprise ending if we weren't clever enough to figure it out. What was lacking though was tension. There were no feelings of suspense. Nobody seemed worried that one of them was a murderer; no one took the detective seriously and he comes across like a buffoon. I also didn't understand how Countess Trentham's maid learned what she did, but that may because this film caused me to drift off frequently. It was a yawner. "},{"Title":"Bunch of Morons go for a weekend holiday with their servants","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was hands-down the saddest waste of two hours I have ever experienced. I can truly say that I found more entertainment from watching the paint dry on my car. It is movies like these which make me ponder as to how people like Robert Altman ever made it in the business in the first place. I hated all the characters, I found myself wishing that a bomb would fall through the roof and either kill them or myself. "},{"Title":"Worst murder mystery ever!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Witless, slow, and boring, this Oscar-winning dud tries to wow the audience with more suspicious characters and red herrings than previous films of the genre.  Served Altman-style, such contrivances serve to irritate rather than impress.  The homogenous cast of loathsome characters look and act so much alike that it's a struggle keeping track of who's who. Unfortunately, in the end... the very bad end... that effort doesn't pay off.Altman fails once again due to lack of charisma, emotion, and urgency.Pretentious and banal the worst kind of movie. 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Boring Boring Boring","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How could anyone like this movie?  Almost nothing happened in the 2+ hours of this movie.  The dialogue is nearly impossible to understand, plus the way it is put together it is difficult to follow.  And as far as the murder mystery - this was no mystery.  The only mystery is how anyone paid money to see this. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The story was almost non-existent and the dialog was terrible.  The character development was also weak, although a movie of this type should have done a good job at that.  I can't believe this movie was up for Oscars.  Ryan Phillippe was probably the only interesting character in this movie, and he had a small role.  Maggie Smith was also good.  The movie was so boring I didn't even care what happened by the end.   "},{"Title":"Quick cure for insomnia.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film about some aristocratic English snobs who live in a big house for a few days for some kind of hunt. There is an entire hour showing scenes of people walking about, sipping tea, shooting birds, and more walking about. They all talk some very strange dialect of English. You do get bits of information here and there, but nothing that makes any sense. There is no wit or humour in any line of dialogue. Nobody faces the camera throughout film, hence you never get to see the countless servants guests and households.  You might be led to believe that Robert Altman is trying to portray the class differences that existed in the 1930. But wait he is also trying to tell a story about a murder and the ensuing investigation. Yes a guy gets killed in the film, and a clown dressed up as a detective tries to make a laughable impression of Hercule Poirot. I tried hard to like this film. but there was no help from the story or the actors. Since there is absolutely no efforts made to make the audience understand what's going on, I guess its perfectly all right if you didn't like this film.I had to endure this two hour torture, just to see what the juries at the Academy Awards saw in this movie to even nominate it for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen. Other movies in this category were Le Fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain, Memento, Monster's Ball, and Royal Tenenbaums. This movie should be voted as the worst movie of the decade. I would strongly recommend this film to anyone who suffers from severe insomnia.  "}{"Title":"what the heck is the big deal","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was quite possibly the most boring movie i have seen in a long time. When i look at the films that were nominated for best picture(the watchable A Beautiful Mind, the Jaw Dropping Moulin Rouge, and my personal favorite Lord of the Rings; I have yet to see in the bedroom) i quite frankly expected the same caliber of film from Gosford Park. This movie does absolutely nothing for the first hour and a half. It is character development. For an hour and a half. I have never seen anything so slow or uninteresting. The key to any story is conflict. In this case, i feel conflict was given up in favor of amusing english banter. It is NOT an hilarious send up of British upper class. It is NOT a twisted murder mystery that keeps you guessing.It is an excuse for Robert Altman to get out of the house. Plain and simple. By the time anything closely resembling a conflict happens, I was so completely inundated by their dry english wit that i stopped caring. I don't think it was possible for me to care less about any of the characters on screen. When the plot starts to thicken around the dinner table as angers start to flare at the would be murder victim, i just stopped caring. I didn't care when he died. I didn't care when the inspector came. I didn't care when the maid started snooping. I didn't care when shocking revelations were made clear. Ultimately, i didn't care when i found out who the murderer was. I just didn't care. Oh God, i don't care. don't care. don't care. for the love of god, i can't stress to you the level of my not caring. There were no, NO, impressive actors, Robert Altman is a ninny, the script was so bland i wouldn't eat it with tabasco sauce, the ending went like this okay we are bored, we need to end it now...um...you, you were the killer. The end.  "},{"Title":"There's two hours I'll never get back!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How this movie received great reviews is a mystery to me.  I went in expecting a great performance based on Altman winning a Golden Globe.  I was sorely mistaken.  While the movie gives some insight into the segregation between the above stairs and below stairs groups of British aristocracy, WHO CARES!!  Everyone was mumbling through the entire movie, there were too many names to keep track of, and the big mystery was not too difficult to figure out.  Overall, a very sad performance.  I can only take solace in the fact that I used a gift certificate to get in. "},{"Title":"The definition of boring","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This isn't even remotely good if you are bored as hell. It is without a doubt the most boring movie I have ever seen. I mean, what where they thinking? The whole plot is in a castle, with a bunch of people sitting around a table talking. By the time the murder takes place, you are already to bored to give a damn. How this movie won an Oscar is beyond me.Don't watch it if you are happy. It will ruin your day. Don't watch it if you are sad. It will make you even sadder. Don't watch it if you are bored. It will make you suicidal. You should rather spend your time watching paint dry. "},{"Title":"Disappointing for Downton fans","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" For Downton fans looking for more of Julian Fellowes' genius, this movie is disappointing. Like the scriptwriter's other creation, the setting is visually pleasing and the music is notably good. However, the characters are difficult to keep track of, and the plot is impossible. Switching points of view, which was pulled off so successfully in Downton Abbey, is muddling here. Also disappointing are the costumes, which lack Downton's elegance. Overall, the movie is worth seeing if only for its star-studded cast which includes, notable for Downton fans, the same pairing of Maggie Smith and the actor playing her butler as in Downton. (Don't expect Maggie Smith to play the Dowager Countess, though- her character in Gosford Park lacks likability, though does have a few Violet-like zingers) "},{"Title":"Good acting can't a save a gloomy borefest","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In the 1930's the British upper classes gather for a shooting weekend which leads to murder.Credit to Altman for a career that features great movies, but this is certainly not one of them. For a start, this is just so s----l---o---w.While its recreation of country house life is believable and an assemble cast give it their all, there are far better films about such subjects and I am not even sure what this is supposed to be. A snail's version of a  whodunit maybe?People that want to see a great film around this kind of subject should see The Remains of the Day (two leagues above this) or the TV series Brideshead Revisted. I'm all for serious cinema, and can  live with a change of pace, but this didn't engage me at all, in fact it bored the living pants off me. Given the good reviews, and even Oscar nominations, this film has probably bored the living pants of quite a number of people by now. "},{"Title":"I adore this movie!!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It makes me appreciate life today.  I don't know what I would have been or would want to have been in that time frame,upstairs or  downstairs. The upstairs class seem so cold, so worldly, so cruel, but they were the ruling class and had it the best if they had money.   I would not have wanted to be a poor upstairs person, dependent on someone else for my place in society.  I would rather have been either upstairs rich or downstairs poor. The downstairs people seem much kinder to one another, and I guess that's something I think is important in one's life.  They were treated so badly most of the time.  The employer really had no consideration for these servants.  I can't imagine this even if I had billions and many servants. I guess I've been middle class too long.  I would insist on running my own bath water and pouring my own coffee, etc. etc.     "},{"Title":"SPEAK UP!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  That is what I felt like yelling at these characters. There voices were so soft, I could not even understand entire sentences.  The sound was just awful.  And you know a film is really, really bad when an hour has gone by and you still don't know the names of any of the main characters and basically nothing has happened.  A movie needs to hook its audience in the first 15 minutes to be good, but this movie was so awful, the murder doesn't even take place till the movie is already half over. And then, there is not much of a mystery to solve. The police don't do anything. We get to see some servent girl figure out who done it. I wanted to see this because of all the award nominations it got. But, how it could have been nominated for anything, I don't know.  The director was awful, and he got all these nominations for this crap. Must have been a sympathy vote.FINAL VERDICT Way too many characters and no plot to speak of.  You can't understand what is being said.  Do not watch this. "},{"Title":"What's the fuss and buzz all about?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What's the fuss and buzz all about?  To me Gosford Park is an ordinary movie, a yawner actually.  I don't dissect a film just because a bunch of film critics said it is good.  A good movie is a good movie... and this one is awful.  I get a feeling the critics wanted throw a bone to Altman just out of respect.  But, really, what can you expect from a film with old British setting? "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most Altman films, but bad enough","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Coming on the heels of stinkers like Dr. T and Ready to Wear, I suppose a tepid, boring, underdeveloped, mediocre film like Gosford Park is a step up for Robert Altman. Still, it's not very good. Altman has occasionally shown a talent for juggling large numbers of characters and multiple plot lines, but this time, there are just WAY too many characters to keep track of, and almost none of the characters are developed. You'll probably find yourself struggling to remember who many of them are.The murder mystery itself is the weakest element of the movie. It will be obvious to almost everyone who stabbed the old man and why. And it will be equally obvious who REALLY killed the old man, and why.So, is there ANYTHING worthwhile? Sure, a few solid performances. Maggie Smith, in particular, is hilarious. But that's about it. "},{"Title":"Really boring movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a fan of film noir, and even B-movies, I have to say I'd be hard pressed to name a more boring movie than this one. OK, it's got fair acting, but we had to watch this one twice (fell asleep the first time), and the second time was pushing the limits.  So who killed the dead man, and who really cares?  Wouldn't watch it on a dare!  In fact, try to name a more boring movie than this..good luck! "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched this film because of the good comments and reviews i saw everywhere, but for once I have to disagree.It is true that the different social groups in the ancient English society are very accurately portrayed. But where I was expecting a thrilling story, I got to see a slowly moving painting which didn't show much interesting. No action at all, but a more than extended view of how people had dinner in those times...interesting for 5mins, not for more then 2hrs.Another example the inspector who was investigating the murder. He was the only character that almost made me laugh, while this movie is supposed to be pretty serious. His role completely mismatched with the rest of the setting the 'plot' was developing into and made the whole part looking' cheap. When finished watching, I really was doubting about what I had seen - did I actually see anything at all?I was pretty much disappointed about this movie - 4/10 "},{"Title":"WHODUNIT ??","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Altman is hit and miss these days. This is one of the hits. That is more largely due to the excellent British cast. The plot and setting have all been done a hundred times.  But the cast all seek to outshine one another.Not sure how Smith and Mirren got Oscar nominations. McDonald is better, and Mirren was much better in Last Orders. "},{"Title":"Is Altman getting senile","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked Altmans' previous movies, but the last two or three are really boring. This one looks like he sat with a copy of a British murder mystery that he bought for a dollar and tried to twist things and produce a satire. What happened to the Altman that made Mash or Mac Cabe and Mrs. Miller. Save your money and rent an earlier film by Altman and forget about Gosford Park. "},{"Title":"Let me off this ride","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wonderful characters, cinematography, and scenery.Problem is -- this movie didn't take me anywhere.  Was it a mystery?  A comedy?  A drama?  A good mix of all three is OK by me -- if it's a good mix.  This thing was about 30 minutes too long and the ending, although not necessarily predictable, was certainly not overly clever.  I've seen a whole lot better of the genre.If you haven't seen Moulin Rouge, do.  It's hands down much more entertaining than this snail. "},{"Title":"Tedious and uninvolving","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have to agree with the (minority of) people who didn't like this film. Despite the star-studded cast and some excellent performances, the film seemed at least half an hour too long. There seemed to be no real atmosphere created, certainly no tension or feeling of threat, and even the humour was confined to the occasional titter rather than anything outstandingly clever or funny. For me, the major problem was that I couldn't make myself care about any of the characters - even the murder victim. Director Robert Altman has to take the blame for this, in making many of them witty and amusing, but none of them sympathetic. Social comment, perhaps, but I would say there's more human interest in five minutes worth of the Upstairs, Downstairs TV series than in this whole, long film.The sound, too, seemed to be badly recorded. Despite turning up the volume on the DVD loud, there were many sections where I was straining to hear what the characters were muttering. Overall, a waste of time. "},{"Title":"At first, hard to follow.  Later, you wonder why you bothered.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I struggled with this film despite being a fan of Robert Altman, particularly his film Short Cuts. Like Short Cuts this film has a large cast of central characters who speak in a very naturalistic low-key way, often talking over the babble of characters in the background.I don't know whether to blame it on my cheap home set-up but, unlike Short Cuts, I found the dialogue hard to follow - particularly during the first half of the film. Naturally this hampers your enjoyment, especially in a film such as this which is very focused on speech.Without wanting to give anything away, following the first half of the film there is an event which gives you cause to reflect on the motivations of all the characters. This was clearly a problem for me, having been unable to make out a good deal of the early dialogue.However, I did feel at the end - and I'm sure this would be true even with the benefit of a full appreciation of the early story - that the film was rather flat. It's beautifully shot with a wonderful period feel. Another Altman trademark is the shot that makes you a voyeur or stalker witnessing people going about their business blissfully unaware that you're looking on. But these perhaps add to a sense that things are simply too played down and uninvolving. It's all very quiet.In Shortcuts the action is much more engaging and the characters more fiery, so the devices that play it down give you a feeling that you are witnessing real people in real drama. With Gosford Park you feel you are witnessing real people who are not doing a great deal It's almost like a 1930s Big Brother in that regard.bodnotbod "},{"Title":"Not good enough not to follow the rules of the genre","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are certain movie that have magnificent scripts, great actors, and direction. They can afford not having the good guy win in the end, or killing off one of the main characters. And still those movies are amazing.This is not one of those movies. I was expecting a good mystery. Instead I got a bowl of gruel without an ending. @ hours were spent on the development of the characters, (not very successfully might i add) leaving five minutes for the conclusion. The characters were fuzzy, the storyline was boring. Basically I was disappointed.The only reason to watch that is if you want to practice a British accent. "},{"Title":"aweful, and don't start give me that deep talk","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is awful.  Don't bother start up with that if you don't like it, you can't appreciate a good film etc, etc.  I am happen to be very big fan of films and very critical of them. No, I didn't have a preconceived notion that this was going to be a mystery.  I watch it with an open mind, and it was all I can do to make through it.  As far as this being a comedy, I'd think a documentary on groundhog would be more entertaining.  While some people see all 138 minutes of fur and small talks as grand, splendid, charming, (notice all the big fat stupid words, oh just like the movie, w00t!) and fleshing out characters.  I think it is as a mean of fill up 138 minutes.  As far as the movie is not about the mystry but about characters, how about these books the importance of being earnest?, glass menagerie, death of a salesman, and war and peace?  All these are books that are capturing the heart and soul of people in an particular era and they are so much better than this, this, horrid, thing.  Besides, why can't the director make it about the mystery AND the characters the same time?  Oh, that is too hard for him?  Akira Kurosawa beats him anyday.    If you like this movie, go check out far from heaven, another pointless 2 hours waste of my time, oh yeah, it is about the era too and not so much the story, giveme a break.  If i find more boring, overrated, pointless movies, I'd be sure to send them your way. Sincerely   "},{"Title":"pretentious, predictable and boring","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Pretentious, predictable and boring, this is one of Altman's least interesting films. The excellent Richard E. Grant delivers, surprisingly, the best performance of a mostly tired all-star cast in this americanised idealisation of English upper class behaviour. Is this what great directors do at the end of their careers (see Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut)? "},{"Title":"Two hours of boredom","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is more like a tribal ethnography than either a black comedy or a whodunnit, and in fact I know more about the social structure and habits of the Polynesians on Tutuila than I learned about the 1930s British upper-class household from this film.  I'm afraid I still don't know a butler from a valet from a footman from a groom from a bootleboy.  I DID learn though that these distinctions were very important at a particular time and place in England.  The TV guide gave this quite a good ranking so I looked forward to seeing it.  A full hour into it, I was wondering what it was all supposed to be about.  The production design, wardrobe, and performances were fine -- but what happened to the story?  I was still trying to figure out who was who.  Snippets of information didn't help that much.  Wisecracks weren't very funny, and the characters essentially uninteresting.  I am glad, though, that Emily Watson came up with that daring interruption while serving dinner to these aristoi.  At least it got everyone's attention for a moment.  (I'd never realized before just how much she resembles Sarah Miles.) Okay.  There is a background story about a Charlie Chan movie about to be produced by Bob Balaban, a gay Jew whose presence in a stifling atmosphere like this is refreshing.  He has the best lines.  On the phone to colleagues in California, he keeps telling them things like, Alab Mowbray is just right.  He's a valet, isn't he?  I'm telling you, all these people here speak with English accents! I should also mention a shooting party of tweedy upper-class British twits.  I don't know how many times we've seen it.  The Rules of the Game, yes, and The Hunting Party, and a smidgeon in Straw Dogs.  A familiar enough setup to be parodied outrageously in a Monty Python film in which the hunters stagger around giggling and firing shotguns at each other and at a dozen rabbits tied to the sod. The first hour in a Charlie Chan movie moves expediciously through its handful of suspects.  They're all one-dimensional stereotypes.  The first hour of this movie introduces so many multi-layered individuals representing so many backgrounds the viewer feels he's been gazing for too long at one of those impossible Picasso's in which you see ten sides to every character.  Or maybe staring for too long at an Archimides spiral.  What a waste of time and talent.But, the murder.  Ah, the murder.  The victim is murdered twice, as he might be in a Christie mystery.  That's about the only resemblance.  This inspector is no Charlie Chan.  He's very tall, with a heavy jaw, and bumbles into every scene.  When he tries to introduce himself he is constantly interrupted by the snobs who treat him like one of the servants (whereas he really more closely resembles an alien in this milieu).  His sargent frequently points out clues which the Inspector dismisses -- They have someone who cleans those things up.  Not only doesn't he find out who the murderer is, but he packs up with his assistant and leaves, half an hour before the movie comes to its rather anticlimactic end.  Nobody pays any attention to the murder or the victim anyway.  The whole incident more or less disappears into the same narrative mist that obscures the rest of the film.  One longs for Hercule Poirot. "}{"Title":"VASTLY overrated","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a teenager looking for explosions or Adam Sandler, but damn this movie dragged.  First try the girlfriend and I both fall asleep.  OK, it was late, try again 2 nights later.  I make it through, she doesn't.  The recreation of a time and lifestyle and the occassional witty banter can't overcome the fact that there are so many characters you don't know who the hell anybody is and you don't really care.  It's not a mystery, it's not a comedy, not dramatic.  Just another self indulgent exercise by an actor's director.  Gimme some plot, some humor, something... "},{"Title":"Another Altman ego-trip","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Slow, boring, talky, confusing, impossible to hear the dialog, stupid plot resolution, etc..... I could go on and on. But, the easiest way to express my feelings about this Turkey is to, simply, say that Robert Altman is the Director. Altman is, if nothing else, consistent. His films are all horrible. For some reason, early on, it became fashionable to praise his films to High Heaven (Nashville, MASH, two extremely overrated movies). If you haven't seen this piece of trash, please don't waste your' time and/or money. This movie is actually worse than Santa Claus Conquers The Martians and Plan Nine From Outer Space. "},{"Title":"Really boring movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a fan of film noir, and even B-movies, I have to say I'd be hard pressed to name a more boring movie than this one. OK, it's got fair acting, but we had to watch this one twice (fell asleep the first time), and the second time was pushing the limits.  So who killed the dead man, and who really cares?  Wouldn't watch it on a dare!  In fact, try to name a more boring movie than this..good luck! "},{"Title":"Much a do about nothing","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The above title is the fit name for this movie. In this time and day a movie such as this is absolutely anachronistic and unnecessary. I honestly cannot say that I remember even a single name of a single character or even that I understood the end. I was bombarded by an immense quantity of information which kept me so concentrated on it that I disregarded the plot. I would suggest that a potential viewer should be aware that this movie does not deliver the goods, i.e. it's extremely boring.  Ending without something positive is not recommended, so I must emphasize the extreme talent of the director in completing such a movie without loosing his ambition through the process. "},{"Title":"Whodunnit? Who cares?","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Some friends and I saw this movie at the weekend and we were full of anticipation. I think we were all expecting a classic whodunnit perhaps along the lines of The cat and the canary (1939).Sadly, what you get is mish-mash of stories all paced to simply drag along. The sets are great, the performances are fine (Maggie Smith in particular) but there's a definite lack of focus here. I noticed from the credits that the film came from an idea by Robert Altman and another and then the story was actually written by a third person. Maybe this explains it?If you're looking for mystery, don't bother. If you want to see some period sets, visit a stately home. "},{"Title":"2 1/2 hours of Boredom with a poor ending.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is possibly the most disapointing film that i have seen in a long time. Rarely do the critics make such a huge mistake with films, however on this occasion they did.It had such a chance to be a wonderful film with a fantastic cast and a fail safe plot, however throughout the film i was left asking myself, Where on earth is this going?, and by the end of the film i had realised the answer, Absolutely nowhere!Don't get me wrong there were some very amusing parts to it but nothing whatsoever the least bit breathtaking.  Despite the wonderful cast, i felt that there was not one character in the whole film that stood out other than Helen Mirren who was fantastic.Therefore i urge you, ignore the critics who will write up anything set pre 1950, unless you want to sit through two and a half hours of turning to the person next to you saying, Do you know what the hell is going on?, and be left not even caring 'whodunit', DO NOT go and see this film!!  "},{"Title":"Possibly The Worst Movie Going Experience Ever","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie moves at a glacial pace, and I think the critics that gave this movie four stars just did so because they didn't want to look stupid.  The funniest part of the film was not what was on screen, but the comments we made about it. This was like a Merchant Ivory MST3K movie going experience. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Couldn't finish watching it.  My wife and I both failed to be captured by this tediously slow film.  Much ado about nothing.  Endless yammering with no point.  Producers/writers/directors need a lesson in those elusive concepts known as plot & pacing.  Avoid this film, for your own sake.  "},{"Title":"unfavorable review","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Extremely stiff and stodgy.  Slow moving and predicatable plot line. Several times the accents make the dialogue unintelligible.  Nice pictures of the English countryside and architecture.  The entire movie was character development with out a character that was worthy of development. "},{"Title":"god awful","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Now maybe its just not my cup of tea, but i found this film to be bad. There were so many characters that one was left quite confused when someone's name was thrown about in conversation. i don't know how they could've possibly fixed this character problem, but i would argue that the problem is this shouldn't be a movie. i believe it could fair well as a book, however in movie form it was a big nothing. I was bored through much of it (back to that tea thing) and that which did happen was lame. Even those of my grouping that did enjoy it were unsure of what had happened at times. The murder motives while i guess were valid were still a little shakey in my opinion. I also found the conversation to be dull and nothing important not repeated at least 2 or 3 times...well if such things weren't repeated then i myself probably would've been clueless to the happenings of the movie. It just wasn't anything. There were one or two niftty little focus shifts but in such a long movie this was hardly enough to keep me entertained. See this if you like boring dialogue or a movie that just seems like you should like it when really there's nothing likeable about it. "}{"Title":"Scattered, messy and fussy -- a pointless movie.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had high hopes for this one, but unfortunately the terrible weaknesses in the script just made it impossible to suspend my tolerance enough to enjoy this. It is so obviously not a who dunnit that advertising it as such is just idiotic. Camouflaging the genre actually requires that the artwork itself is camouflaged, not just the poster.The pointlessly many characters are seen in scenes that have nothing to do with the story, and whose purpose as social commentary is rather questionable for example,why should we be so interested in a fake valet trying to bonk everything that moves while a homosexual connection is hinted at? What is the point? The movie is full of these half-thought out scenes that do not tie in with anything. And then the trigger for actions is something entirely unbelievable head maid blurting something out of place - absolute nonsense and not credible at all. The two points I gave go to Maggie Smith. "},{"Title":"What a CRAP Fest","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh my GOD, is it possible to sue a filmmaker for the 2 1/2 hours of your life you lost to this movie?  I spent the first half of the movie not understanding what any of the people were saying, the sound in this film is an atrocity of modern audio mixing, the second half not caring about what they were saying.  There are few likable characters.  This movie tried to be too many things and succeeded in being only one thing.  A 2 1/2 hour snooze fest not worth the film it was printed on.My apologies to the actors and actresses who got sucked into acting out this wretched example of import cinema, with any luck they won't make the same mistake twice.Howard "},{"Title":"Endless group scenes talky and boring","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a take on the tired Agatha Christie plot Someone is murdered at a weekend gathering in a huge house and it turns out he was murdered by more than one person.This movie is a non ending collage of group scenes with more than 2 people talking at once--this alone is exhausting and irritating. Plot development is distracted to say the least.The interior set seemed claustrophobic to me too many people too small of spaces.Mostly the thing is boring. A murder happens after about an hour of endless group scenes..the kitchen the dining table blah blah blah.....Altman was 77 when he made this turkey. He should have followed Maggie Smith's line in the movie People should know when to retire.It is also a feel good Anglo American Jewish PC ensemble piece....DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME! "},{"Title":"This movie fails to meet my expectations","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I do not recommend Gosford Park to anyone. Perhaps if Alfred Hitchcock had written and directed it, the movie would have been great. Gosford Park resembles a soap opera in that it has a large cast list. Also most of the movie is spent watching the cast sit around and talk to each other. All the action in the movie is downplayed. I saw the movie thinking it was a murder mystery comedy film. I watched the first hour wondering what the plot was. The cast is so large there isn't time to develop any characters fully. This movie would have worked better if it had used suspense. As Hitchcock once said, You can have two people sitting at a table discussing baseball, or you can show that there is a bomb under the table as the guys talk. Without the viewer's knowledge of the bomb, it would just be two people talking about baseball. This sums up how dry this movie truly is. "},{"Title":"truly BAD","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When you can't make it throught the first 45 minutes without a single laugh, dramatic moment or ANYTHING happening, I classify it as awful.  This movie may have gotten a sympathy vote from those who think Altman is a talented director, but this is truly bad.  Maybe it gets better after the first hour, but many will never find out since they, as i have done, turn it off well before.  Skip it to see anything esle.  If you want to see a good film from this era and locale see the others or remains of the day. "},{"Title":"More like Grouseford Park","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie simply because it was nominated for so many Oscars. I don't see how it won the Oscar instead of Memento in the best screenplay category. This movie dredges along painfully in the first hour and then there is a murder. Just when you think that things are going to get interesting, it doesn't. It just dredges on for another hour. You can guess the plot almost immediately as clues are served so there won't be any real surprise in the end. There are too many characters and very little effort is made in bringing out any of them properly. The dialogue was mundane and the accent/sound recording was so bad that you couldn't make out what they were saying, half the time. This is not a murder mystery. It is not a peep into the lives of the upper and lower class societies. I endured this movie to see if it might offer something that made it worthy of its acclaim at the Academy but I failed to see it. Must miss! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just got home from seeing Gosford Park, and I can sum this one up in just a few words.It's a rental for sure.For starters, there were too many characters to keep track of, and not enough reasons to really give a damn about any of them. Granted, it was my first experience watching a Robert Altman film, and knowing that Altman is known for his large ensemble cast movies, I should have expected this. However, Altman being the accomplished film director that he is, I'm sure even Altman could have given me reasons to care about the characters, their backgrounds, their relationships, or anything else. He failed miserably.The only real glimmer of hope in this movie comes in the form of Steven Fry's dim-witted investigator. However, he enters into the mix far too late in the film, and for me, far too late to really garner any interest I might have lost. Maggie Smith manages to slip in the occassional sharp-tongued one-liners, but they are way too few and too far between. Ryan Phillipe was just annoying, plain and simple. Everyone else was your typically stuffy English, save for the equally annoying film producer from California who wouldn't shut up or go away. By the half-way point of the movie, I was wishing he'd be the murder victim. Yes, that's right...the murder doesn't even happen until more than half way through the movie.As a movie, Gosford Park definitely should rank among the year's worst films. As a cure for insomnia, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made, including home movies.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone involved in this movie should never be allowed to work again.  I am serious.             "},{"Title":"Gosford Park","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" From director Robert Altman (MASH, Nashville), this period murder mystery feeling like an Upstairs Downstairs satire it is an all-star classic feeling drama. Set in the 1930's the story takes place in an old fashioned country house, focusing on both the upper class family members and house guests, and also the servants that serve them. It seems many people in the house upstairs and downstairs want a piece of the head of the house and his money, and it seems that someone will go pretty far to get it. It is when the police are called to investigate the head of house's poisoning, and stabbing afterwards, that all members of the house are revealed to have secrets, but which one has the motive for murder? Starring Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dame Maggie Smith as Constance Trentham, Sir Michael Gambon as William McCordle, Kristin Scott Thomas as Sylvia McCordle, Emily Watson as Elsie, Shallow Grave's Kelly Macdonald as Mary Maceachran, Clive Owen as Robert Parks, Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Dame Helen Mirren as Mrs. Wilson, Eileen Atkins as Mrs. Croft, Alan Bates as Jennings, Derek Jacobi as Probert, Bob Balaban as Morris Weissman, Jeremy Northam as Ivor Novello, I Know What You Did Last Summer's Ryan Phillippe as Henry Denton, Richard E. Grant as George, Stephen Fry as Inspector Thompson, Charles Dance as Lord Raymond Stockbridge, Tom Hollander as Anthony Meredith and Sophie Thompson as Dorothy. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Director for Robert Altman (he did however win the Golden Globe) and Best Picture, it won the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Costume Design, and it was nominated for Best Make Up/Hair, Best Production Design, Best Original Screenplay, the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer Julian Fellowes (writer) and the David Lean Award for Direction, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and Best Screenplay. Kristin Scott Thomas was number 22, Dame Helen Mirren was number 7, and Dame Maggie Smith number 4 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, Mirren was number 5, and Smith number 4 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and Smith was number 20 on The World's Greatest Actor. Good! "},{"Title":"Quick comment on a movie that may have been misunderstood.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Either I just didn't get it or this was an awful movie.  Either way I give it a 2; not the worst movie I've ever seen but I'm certainly glad I didn't pay money to watch it and I'd never watch it again.  Either way it's better than Titanic, but just barely "}{"Title":"Good story drawn out waaaaay too long.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This could have been good. The story was great with the murder mystery but if the murder would have happened about an hour earlier it might have been an excellent movie. The plot felt waaay too dragged out, and I found myself constantly trying to stay awake throughout. Don't even rent this one. "},{"Title":"Prepare for extensive boredom","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I usually like this kind of murder mysteries, but in this case I found it pretty hard to stay awake. In the first 75 minutes absolutely NOTHING (NADA!) is happening and it seems to go on and on forever with dull dialogs and no story at all. When the murder finally takes place and an inspector joins the scene I actually hoped the movie could turn around. But after another 20 minutes I finally had to leave the cinema. I'll never know the ending and I don't miss it at all (02/10). "},{"Title":"overreated","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the perfect film for people who want to pretend that they are film critics.  It pretends to be an interesting film while having a mystery that anyone can see through at the beginning and without one character with which the audience can identify. By the middle of the film, I wanted all of the characters to be murdered they were so unlikeable. The film also pretends to be a period piece while getting many things wrong and pretends to be British while using American lexicon.This will become on of my yardstick films.  Anyone who says this film great should be immediately discounted. "},{"Title":"Who else was snoring?","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With a boring, cliched plot and snore-worthy dialogue, I had a hard time keeping awake during this one.  The acting was good, but there just wasn't much to be done with such an awful script.  My jaw dropped when I found out that this horrible script had won an Academy Award.  Well, obviously there's some sort of drug being passed around in the Academy for them to consider this worthy of an award. "},{"Title":"Gosford Park doesn't work","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Half an hour into this movie, it still had not made any attempt to show where it wanted to go. After an hour I was thinking that it has all the elements of a decent whodunit, except that nobody had dun anything. When someone FINALLY gets killed, Stephen Fry shows up as the police, makes no effort to solve the crime and then leaves. He is apparently supposed to be funny, but doesn't seem very interested.Gosford Park was boring. It doesn't work as a costume drama, because it has been done better before. It doesn't work as a whodunit, because it isn't one.I gave it a 4 because of Maggie Smith, who is great as always. "},{"Title":"I felt asleep.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Now, I'm not easy on doing harsh critics. But someone should me explain the hype around this movie, around this Robert Altman. I *wanted* to watch this movie, as I was eager to see something new from Altman, but I'm not the kind of spectator who sits down there and ahh, but this is an Altman, while asking and wondering what the heck this movie is about! It's okay, it's from Altman, but even Altman can be sense- and meaningless.I felt really *catapulted* into this movie from the beginning. For the next 50 minutes, nothing is really explained, or at least, you have to puzzle the explanations who is who and what are they doing there by yourself, from the dialogue of the characters. I felt like being projected into a basar; the only way to understand was to catch up dialogue between dozens of characters for the next hour... Well, at one hour twenty, when the murder happened, I felt asleep.Will someone *please* tell Hollywood that a good movie is not necessarily a good name behind the camera?Horrible. "},{"Title":"boring, unintelligible, no characters to care about","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I only got through the first hour of this movie. I returned it to Blockbusters and asked for an exchange. It has me biased against Altman. The overlapping dialogue makes for realistic staging, but I couldn't make out all of it. The sound simply sucked. The plot was boring, and I couldn't find a single character to care about. 1 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have read reviews with descriptions like a movie for active movie viewers, appropriately slow moving in the beginning, and your patience is rewarded.  Gosford Park is extremely overrated and generally a pile of crap.  Appropriate slow moving?  The movie never starts.  The characters are annoying, underdeveloped, and generally uninteresting.  The plot crawls and is far from original-- wow, someone is murdered twice!  And on top of it all, it's virtually impossible to understand the heavily accented dialogue. I needed subtitles to see this thing.  In conclusion, Gosford Park sucks and has received stellar reviews on this site and in the general media souly on Altman's past triumphs. "},{"Title":"PEDIGREE DOES NOT EQUAL QUALITY!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off let me say that I have to take issue with IMDB's putting A great review of an excellent film as the main user comment; just taking one look at the user comments shows how much that does NOT represent the opinion of most of us who care to post.  I will say that looking at the comments was very gratifying, I couldn't believe the user rating was 7.6/10 but gladly most of us will talk about this film for what it really is.  I have never been so outraged when watching the Academy Awards as this year, as two of the very best films from an extraordinary year, Memento and The Royal Tenenbaums, lost out to this worthless self-indulgent piece of garbage!  The Academy is so f**king full of itself I'm not sure I'll ever even watch the Oscars anymore.  This movie is NOT polished and NOT witty at ALL!  I would honestly like to sit down with some of these critics who rave about the movie and have them tell me exactly what they found so funny.  This movie is NOT a comedy by any stretch of the imagination.  Memento literally had more laughs than this movie-3 solid ones (when Leonard says I'm chasing this guy...no wait, he's chasing me, when he kicks the guy in room 9 instead of 6, and when he finds out he's being charged for 2 hotel rooms).  I watched this movie with a theater full of people and a few people only even CHUCKLED when one of the characters said fart.  Oh yeah, that's really witty, why didn't Look Whose Talking Too sweep the Oscars? I've never seen such a case where critics seemed to love a movie because doing so made them refined.  Oh a Robert Altman ensemble period piece, let me make out my best film of the year review right now, I can fill in the character names after I watch it!  How were we supposed to care at all about the class conflict when there was hardly anyone in either class who wasn't despicable and/or boring?  I couldn't even keep track of any of the character's names or attributes, there were just so many of them Academy Award Winner Julian Fellowes was bombarding us with he seemed to have forgotten to make any of them memorable.  Emily Watson's was the only one that even bordered on it.  0x1,000,000 still equals 0.  Compare this to The Royal Tenenbaums, that had a much smaller ensemble of characters but they were all infinitely more compelling.  The plot, meanwhile, was worthless.  It takes well over an hour for the murder to even take place, and then everything was so predictable, even the final twist.  I've heard this movie compared to Agatha Christie by so many sources; well I loved And Then There Were None and Witness to the Prosecution and IMHO to mention this in the same breath as Christie IS A TRAVESTY!Given that the movie has no value as a comedy, a character study, or a murder mystery, what is it?  I guess it was a chance for Robert Altman to have his trademark brilliant overlapping dialogue with many British characters in a thoughtful (read SLOW) movie and show what an artist he truly is.  Apparently in his case that's enough for a barrage of Top 10 lists and year end awards, as well as for Roger Ebert to be throwing a temper tantrum saying This guy is 74 years old and he's never won an Academy Award!  Please, do yourself a favor and skip Gosford Park, because this emperor has no clothes.                     "},{"Title":"Most overrated art house movie of the year","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh, yes, the new one by Robert Altman ... come ye, come all, and ... be bored. What a disappointment. This tired, cliched mix of social satire, murder mystery and ill-placed slapstick is the favorite pick of the more intellectual movie reviewing crowd? Good heavens. The surprise revelations which keep coming at us at snail's pace are stock elements of any Agatha Christie novel (the identity of the murderer, the reason for the murder, the relationships between all the people involved, down to the very identities of the perpetrators). The acting is uneven (the American butler is particularly atrocious, while Helen Mirren is outstanding); Stephen Fry as the bumbling inspector is an embarrassing and jarring sight, completely out of place; none of the dialogue is particularly witty (does anybody seriously think Maggie Smith's supercilious, mean-spirited remarks deserve any points for being clever?). And none of the people are in any way convincingly drawn, the servants as little as the masters - take the final scene with Helen Mirren, for instance, which I'm sure is meant to leave us gasping in wonder, pity and understanding. To me, that scene summed up what was wrong with the movie a character doing and saying something that was completely out of her style, so that we could have a nicely resolved ending.Oh, and did I mention that all the characters involved are stock figures as well (the Bitchy Trophy Wife, the Devoted Butler, the Upstart Ambitious American, the Poor Grasping Relations, the Conniving Rich Man, the Ingenue Servant etc.)? This is what Robert Altman, who gave us Nashville and The Player has come down to? Sic transit gloria mundi. Perhaps he should have stopped directing after Ready to Wear (which was almost as bad as Gosford Park.) It is interesting to note, however, that the American public (including movie reviewers) still imbues anything vaguely English and aristocratic with intellectualism, artistic merit and a whiff of exoticism. Give me David Lynch's Mulholland Drive over this any time - at least Mr. Lynch isn't completely derivative. "}{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm sorry, I really am, but this load of steaming bullcrap won Best Screenplay at the Oscars?! And to make matters worse, it won it over Amelie! I mean seriously. Aren't screenplays supposed to- you know- have a STORYLINE or at least a PLOT? There are about a million characters in Gosford Park so it is hard to feel with them and really care about what they're doing. Well, actually they didn't really do anything at all.The first five minutes or so were quite good though. I thought Maggie Smith's character being such a selfish cow was funny. But then she, like all the others, descended into a dull blur.For an hour and twenty minutes, absolutely nothing happened except that a few birds died, a guy played piano almost non-stop and some rich snobs played bridge. Woohoo. It was all so exciting I just had to keep shaking myself to wake up.Finally, when the crime occurred I was able to watch the movie and take in what was going on. But no, a few minutes later it went back down to flat and boring mode.When I managed to find the energy to movie my hand I switched it off after 90 minutes. Normally I can't stop watching a movie half way through because not knowing how it ends would be annoy me. But for this, I was at the point where I just simply didn't care at all.My rating 2/10 I'm not giving it a 1 because of some rather nice art direction. But a movie does actually need a story. "},{"Title":"Clive Owen could be the next James Bond 007.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Clive Owen plays Robert Parks.  Clive Owen might get a chance to be selected to be the next James Bond 007 after Pierce Brosnan passes it on. He might have to wait until the year 2008. Maggie Smith plays Contance Trentham. Maggie Smith is an actress I adore.  I loved her in CALIFORNIA SUITE (1978).  Bob Balaban plays Morris Weissman.  I have not seen him act since CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND (1977).  Ryan Phillippe plays Henry Denton.  A real horny b***ard he is in this film.  Helen Mirren, Emily Watson, Kristin Scott Thomas and Alan bates are also in the cast. This film is a lot of English...Pip...Pip...Cherrio stuff until someone is murdered.  "},{"Title":"Col. Mustard with the candlestick in the library.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Is this Robert Altman at his best or worst? GOSFORD PARK is a slow moving all-star murder mystery. A beastly owner of a 1930's British estate is killed during a weekend shooting party and upper crust get together. The movie is very wordy and mostly with bad accents. The murder event is not as important as the attitudes and suspicions between the high class guests and their servants. The cast members dialogue make the movie. You either find this entertaining or pretty lame. Wardrobes and sets are outstanding. Notable among this large cast are Kristin Scott Thomas, Eileen Atkins, Michael Gambon, Jeremy Northam, Kelly Macdonald, Maggie Smith, Emily Watson and Ryan Phillippe. A hot buttered rum sounds good about now. Brandy if its handy. "},{"Title":"Poisoning and stabbing father in the back","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While the film deserves acknowledgement for the carefully prepared social and historical setting of worthy documentary standards the overall opinion cannot be anything but negative and profoundly disgusting. The plot is centred on the moral justification of parricide and to a lesser extent on the coverup of the homicidal avengement by the parricidal victim mother. These aberrations derive from cliche of well known origin whereby in the son's distorted feelings the father is guilty of vile egoism whereas the mother's (or rather The Mother's) own pursuit comes over as saintly altruistic. In the depraved fantasy of the parricidal maniac the Mother figure is held so highly that her earthly presence is unconceivable (let alone under the same roof and at the services of a tyrannical father) only heaven itself seems a worthy sanctuary. The poor son can only presume her having died out of heart break for the very loss of her child. The son's understandable resentment is focused solely on the father without even considering the slightest blame on the Mother. The saintly MUM does have the decency however of never revealing herself thereby avoiding her son's disappointment. The moral of the film takes for granted that the carnal union which gave birth to the parricidal maniac is the result of the disgusting habits of the father and that the mother's innocence was taken advantage of due to her state of need bringing upon her the suffered loss of her chastity. A moral both obscene and stereotype which the film nonetheless thrusts out at its audience without any second thoughts in the knowledge that it will encounter their complacent  and dishonest approval anyway. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who don't like this movie ?","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers (like you don't now what it is)Can't believe how people (and that's rising) like films that other people (read media) tell them their good. That's so sad and stupid, first we would have true rating on this site if people would be only true to themselves and had opinion.Film is so boring, sooooooo. Even thou your brain is always on with that short cuts, they are still boring and after 30 minutes of watching (maybe less) you just don't care anymore how its gonna end. And anyone would guess (even without watching the trailer) that it's gonna be like in those Agatha Christie books and others plagiats of the plot we had our snobbish party and look what happened someone is killed, god who is it. Even that Poirot episode would be more fun than this. And don't think that boriness would end soon, the film is 3 hours long.And about other Altman movies I don't think he is bad, he definitely has his sign in every film, and when you watched you definitely know its him. I didn't like Short cuts (the movie) but I liked Doctor T and the women and Cookie's fortune is one of my favorites.And Ryan Phillippe is so bad after his two scenes that its funny. He should never been cast for this film. Well that's not something he should regret cause film is BAD.Overall rating should be 3, 1 for this film, yeah if 70% of the people wasn't stupid.Ill be genres with this one 2 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Yawn.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoiler may follow; at least for the first hour of it.This movie suffers from Pearl Harbor disease; meaning that it's way to long and talky for it's content. Well, at least I wasn't dumb enough to watch all of it. I turned it off at the one hour point. I can't comment on the last 1 hour and 18 minutes; but I will say this much the first hour is the most boring and pointless hour of movie I've seen since Pearl Harbor. I was just sitting there, ready to yell at the screen Look, if you're going to have a murder, have a murder already. It was kind of obvious when they show you a jar with poison written on it, that yeah, someone's gonna die. Also it has this problem of having way to many characters. For example they had two tables of characters (one table had the guest, the other had the servants).Now I don't mind movies that are talky; but if the people are gonna say something; say something interesting. Driving Miss Daisy was good at it, yes it was very talky; but the dialog was well written and I could relate to the characters. Basically, it needs more editing; cut down the running length so that I won't have to sit there for an hour waiting for stuff to happen. One hour of talking heads isn't character development, it's boring. In the end, I couldn't care less about a bunch of snobby English people bantering on and on. "},{"Title":"Was this a documentary or what?","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a big Altman fan and have seen pretty much everything he's done.  This one disappointed me.  It was great on style, cinematography and even acting, but there was simply no plot, no flow, no arc.  And it was soooo long!   It reminded me very much of Upstairs, Downstairs with a lot more research behind it.  It you watch the DVD Special Features, there is an interview with Altman which kind of explains it all.  He just doesn't care about the plot and doesn't even know if the actors are reciting the lines correctly.  It's just an experiment to me, he says.  Maggie Smith was the best.  "},{"Title":"The most god awful boring film ever","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie sucks and Robert Altman sucks for making it. A bunch of snobs discussing things together in an English countryside house. Wow what an exciting topic to make a movie about. Something only a director as boring as Robert Altman could conjure up. None of the characters are interesting or have even the remotest of charisma. Why is this even called a murder mystery? even the murder scene was boring. I talked to someone who went to the cinema to see this when it first opened, they said that almost the entire cinema had fallen asleep or were amusing themselves by throwing popcorn around by the ending of this slop heap. I couldn't stomach anymore of the lame costumes and pathetically inept dialogue and had to switch it off. The characters are just so shallow and it's no wonder why so many people on these comments call this boring too. The snobbish sheep who preach that we didn't get it are mistaken. "},{"Title":"incomprehensible rubbish","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Everyone who has seen this movie has to admit one thing half of the dialogue is so garbled you can't tell what people are saying for most of the movie. While this might be acceptable for a scene or two when in a room of crowded people, for it to drag on for the entire movie is bad film-making indeed. A good film HAS to have good dialogue, especially when it bills itself as a murder mystery. If you cannot hear half of the dialogue, how are you supposed to figure out what is going on? I think people who like this movie think this is being artistic. There is nothing artistic about a bunch of gibberish that may or may not mean anything because the director wants you to not hear it. It didn't make sense.What reviewer said earlier that a good film doesn't have to have a story? If you want a story read a book. WHAT??? If a movie has no story, it will be incomprehensible. This movie is a great example of scenes just spliced together with no regard for character development or continuity.Additionally, although we have a great cast, the movie never really goes anywhere. It wanders about from scene to scene, leaving the audience to wonder if there is a point to it all. Nothing is engaging about this movie.It is not interesting or thrilling. What a sorry excuse for a mystery. I have always enjoyed British mysteries in movie form, but this one leaves much to be desired. Many who have commented on this movie said they were bored. I'm not surprised by this reaction at all. "},{"Title":"Seriously...The worst movie of all time!!!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let me begin by saying. The reason that everyone is saying that this movie was slow and boring and not a murder mystery is because of the advertising. Even the DVD says it is an amazing murder mystery.  As far as you people out there that saw the movie in a different way and liked it...good for you. However, if i told you to go see Saving private Ryan and that it was a Romantic Comedy and it was sold as a romantic comedy would you call it a good movie?  It missed on all points of what they were trying to get across. As far as the movie being a I can't sleep because i am an insomniac and i hope that this will help film.  It's right on.  No mystery, no one even cares that the guys dies, or even that they could be next.  The murder doesnt even happen until the end of the movie and by that time I was hoping that I could get back the 2 hours of my life I just lost.Please just call it as you should.  A mans hope in creating a wonderful movie but fell very short because of the lack of plot.I BEG YOU ALL WHO READ...IF YOU HAVENT SEEN THIS MOVIE THERE IS STILL TIME. GO RENT MULHOLLAND DRIVE IF YOU WANT A GOOD MYSTERY. DON'T SAY I DIDN'T WARN YOU!!! "}{"Title":"Waste of Money","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How much money did Robert Altman spend to win the Golden Globe for this movie????It was not only a waste of my time and money to sit through it but it was a waste of money to make. The only reason I sat through the entire movie was I was waiting for this great 'based on an idea' idea to come through. I still do not know what the great IDEA was!?!?!It was not funny, I was bored to death with the rich, British daily weekend life and it wasn't that mysterious!I like to be entertained when I see a movie but there was nothing entertaining about this (so called) movie. "},{"Title":"terrible!!!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i thought this was going to be another movie like clue.  kind of silly, and amusing.  the story line behind this movie stinks.  there was potential for about 20 minutes in the middle of the movie where i thought the action was going to pick up, but then the movie died again.  if you like british comedy, this movie might be for you. -) "},{"Title":"Horribly Boring","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Previews touted this as a Murder-Mystery.  I left the theater 1 hr. 10 min. into the 2 hr 17 min movie, and a murder had yet to be committed.I sensed the crime to be committed shortly, and had the movie not completely lost me, I might have stayed.  But, when my mind wanders to thoughts of better ways to spend my time, it's time to go.  I simply didn't care about the movie.Gosford Park exemplifies the cultural differences between the U.S.A and the U.K. and should be billed as a Foreign movie in the U.S.A.  I found myself not understanding many lines and Sub-titles would have been nice.I left the theater feeling deceived.  "},{"Title":"Man Talk about boring.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really don't know if I'm missing something, but I find this movie just so boring.  There is nothing in the movie that is even remotely close to being funny to me (according to the genre and what the TV says, it's supposed to be a comedy).  The people are extremely boring including the dialogue. You don't even care to find out who the killer is.Talking about the murder, it takes to long for it to even happen, and it wasn't even exciting at all, it was just plain.  You don't even see the person being killed, you just see the body slump over.Even though critics seem to really enjoy this film, and users seem to give it a nice number.  It really isn't all that great.  I like movies that have hardly any action  (having action doesn't always mean big explosions and fighting) if the people are interesting.  And this Movie and the people aren't interesting. "},{"Title":"torturous","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Whoever managed to watch this protracted miracle of boredom to the end certainly deserves the badge of endurance, if not courage. It's much easier to get involved into a turtle race than into this movie. Each particular scene/snippet of dialog/facial expression may be mildly entertaining but two hours of nothing but that!! "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie was so so so slow. I kept waiting for it to get to the point but it just never did. I was hoping for a really good murder mystery but the only mystery to me is how I managed to sit through it to the end. This movie is actually about really subtle reading between the lines and the difference between upper and lower class. That is my idea of boredom but if thats what floats your boat go for it... if on the other hand you want to stay awake for a couple of hours watch paint dry instead.. its about as interesting if not more so at least you might get high off the fumes...The only highlight of this movie is most people could act and did the best job with the dull script that they could. "},{"Title":"Dull, dull, dull.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a dull film.Unbelievable, nonsensical, not remotely thrilling, not always fully audible.The film smacks of famous actors desperate to work with a famous director, and not particularly bothered about what their audience thinks of the finished product. This film was hyped way beyond its merits.One of the worst evenings I have ever spent in a cinema.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrendous","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie absolutely sucked!  I fell asleep twice(during the day) and rewound it 10 to 20 times to try and understand what somebody had said. Terrible movie...boring and slow.  How anybody could say this is a great movie is beyond me.  I think Agatha Christie would be insulted that this movie was compared to her works.  This is just an example of how a name in Hollywood translates into what is supposed to be a critically acclaimed movie.  Don't rent it, and don't even watch it on cable.  I swear you'll even call your cable company and ask for a credit on you bill for wasting your time! "},{"Title":"Waste of Time!!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie with my wife and both of us did not like it.  Too many characters, hard to follow.  Does not do anything for North American viewers.  Save your time and watch something else.  1 out of 10. cheers. "},{"Title":"Park the movie, not worth the time...","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Over the course of two days I successfully finished watching Gosford Park.  The movie is not long however, it took me two days to finish watching it because I fell asleep a half-an-hour into the feature.  I wanted to give it a fair chance so I ended up finishing it the next day.This is an incredibly slow moving film.  Unlike Hollywood's bang'em up features Gosford Park is much slower paced.  However, the flaw with this film is not so much the slower pace but the actual story lines--there are too many and they are a mess trying to keep them straight.  It eventually boils down to a case of he-said-she-said.  Not pretty.  The stories were not tight and there were too many plot holes to keep track.What also takes away from the movie is the sound quality.  Somehow all the voices don't sound clear which makes it difficult to understand what is happening with the rest of the movie of which was understood.  I eventually had to turn on the captions on my DVD to follow along.On the positive side though, the movie was true to the period and vastly authentic.  The picture quality was good although there were times that some important elements of the film were hidden by poor lighting.  Nevertheless, it was good to see a true picture of rolling country sides.My vote 4/10  "}{"Title":"Very stale, very stale indeed...","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We heard pretty good things about it from some people, so we decided to check it out at the video store. We popped in the tape and started watching it. The room was silent. No laughs, no giggles, no anything. In our minds we were all screaming as loud as we could because we couldn't stand to watch it any longer. Finally we decided to stop watching it, and the screaming stopped. "},{"Title":"A film for the sleep deprived.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film about some aristocratic English snobs who live in a big house for a few days for a hunt. There is an entire hour showing scenes of people walking about, sipping tea, shooting birds, and more walking about. They all talk some very strange dialect of English. You do get bits of information here and there, but nothing that makes any sense. Nobody faces the camera throughout film, hence you never get to know who is who. I tried hard to like this film. but there was no help from the story or the actors. In IMDB This film is classified under Mystery, Drama and Comedy. Do not be misled,  you won't find any of those in this film.  Yes a guy gets killed in the film. And a clown dressed up as a detective tries to make a laughable impression of Hercule Poirot. Since there is absolutely no efforts made to make the audience understand what's going on, I guess its perfectly all right if you didn't like this film.I had to endure this two hour torture, just to see what the juries at the Academy Awards saw in this movie to even nominate it for `Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published'. Let me remind you that Lord of the Ring was also nominated for the same category. To even compare J.R.R. Tolkien's work to this piece of trash is unthinkable.I would strongly recommend this film to anyone who suffers from severe insomnia.  "},{"Title":"oh my god","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was one of the worst i have ever seen... the movie opens in the pouring rain that is so loud that it dominates over the dialogue.  you never fully get an introduction to the characters so the entire movie is so confusing because you don't know who anyone is.  they all refer to each other, but it takes almost all of the two and a half hours to figure out who's who.  and as far as ryan phillippe's character, you almost never get what's going on with him. the most enigmatic part of the movie is when he pulls a fast one on maggie smith's maid and they show a close-up of his pants tag that says fox studios.  i paid five dollars to see this movie and i would very much like to have it back.  "},{"Title":"Oh, the Humanity!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let me first say, that I typically enjoy many types of films comedies, dramas, action/suspense thrillers and so on.  But I would have to be lying through my teeth to say that I enjoyed watching this movie.Watching Gosford Park is to put it best, an exercise in tedium.  The film drags on for an hour and a half before anything remotely interesting happens.  Even then, you'll be ecstatic because you think that the end to this train-wreck-of-a-movie is in sight.  Wrong.This movie keeps going and going and going.  Many of the scenes consist of nothing but the characters being involved in such riveting events like a) playing bridge, b) listening to some yahoo sing & play the piano, and c) shooting birds.  You would think they would save these captivating action scenes for the Special Edition DVD, but no, Altman goes all out for the big film!Anyhow, if you still insist on sitting through this , I suggest that you not go in on a full stomach.  Much like the exciting roller-coaster rides at Disney World, you'll be puking your guts out half-way through this film.Unfortunately, that's about as close as I can get to saying exciting and Gosford Park in one sentence. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman by the way of Merchant Ivory= Boring Mess!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The makers of this film would like you to believe that it's a screwball/British/wacky/intelligent/murder mystery/comedy from the previews.  Well, it isn't. What it is a bloated, wordy, mess of a movie that's way too long and has way too many characters (typical of a Robert Altman movie.)  They've lifted the few bright moments from the movie and have inserted them into the trailer.  Don't be fooled into believing the raves of critics.  This movie desperately needs a fast forward button to get through the slow bits.  Jeremy Northam and Ryan Phillippe turn in good performances.  Maggie Smith is slowly turning into Bette Davis (although she's not half as scary). Helen Mirren is also quite good, although her storyline is very predictable.   Had this film been about 45 minutes shorter, and had about 18 less characters, it may have been something to talk about.  However, it's not. "},{"Title":"Tried watching three times - fell asleep every time.","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Narcoleptics rejoice! After three failed attempts to make it through this movie I gave up. I cannot recommend this movie as it failed to generate enough interest to keep me awake. I was only tired the first time too! I heard nothing but wonderful things about this movie, well don't always beleive what you hear. "},{"Title":"Boring !!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This must be the most boring mainstream film I have ever seen.  It looked nice, but that's all that can be said for it.  There were far too many characters, mostly undeveloped so it became very difficult to work out who was who.  Maybe it didn't matter, but after two hours I had had enough and left.  So, I don't know 'who dunnit', but the lack of characterisation means I don't care.  From reading the other comments it looks as if I missed the best part of the film, but is it really good enough to make the pain of the first two hours worthwhile? "},{"Title":"The trailer is a big misleading.","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" From watching the trailer,I really thought I'd like this movie. It looked interesting and fun. Well,it turns out trailers aren't always true to the movie.This movie was boring.It's as simple as that. I didn't laugh once(well,maybe at Phillipe's accent)and I found NOTHING Oscar worthy. Probably more British people would like this movie more than ANYONE ELSE,due to the incredible 'britishness' of the movie. I like the British,but this movie was just too British for me to be able to relate to it.Not that thats the main problem,thats just a cliff note of everything. The main thing is that this movie just wasn't good. I really don't understand the Oscars anymore. They never choose movies that are actually good. It's very strange. "},{"Title":"Sadly Predictable and Easy to Solve","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a disappointment. Gosford Park started out strong and engrossing,  but that all fell away with a whodunit that was an easy youknowit. The clues to the murder were so blatantly obvious that you'll discount them only to find out that all aspects of the murder were pathetically simple. A great cast wasted on a screenplay that didn't delight. "},{"Title":"I want my 2 and a half hours back","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't think that there has been another movie that ticked me off as much as this one did. The plot is as thin as paper, and for a dramatic murder mystery it's not all that dramatic. If it takes over an hour for the plot of a movie to begin there's got to be something wrongSome one told me it was good, and then I decided to watch it. BIG mistake. After the movie was over, I wanted to go to bed ( it was about 7 o'clock) and sleep until noon so that my eyes could heal from this wretched, drawn on, waiting-for-the-story-to-begin movie. For the first hour and a half, I was beginning to wonder whether the plot was going to actually go anywhere. Murder mystery? Yeah, right. Avoid this misleading movie; its not good. "}{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had heard only good things about this movie, so my friend and I decided to rent it one day. I think that everyone who likes this movie must have seen a different film than we did. We were just glad that we had rented it instead of seeing it in the theater. That way, we could rewind it and constantly stop it to discuss the several things that confused us. If I had seen this in the theater, I would have walked out. It was almost impossible to keep all of the characters straight. I absolutely hated the overlapping dialogue. I didn't care about most of the characters or what happened to them. The murder mystery was boring. Shall I continue? I usually like these actors, especially Maggie Smith, Clive Owen and Jeremy Northam. What a waste of a talented cast! I haven't seen very many Robert Altman films, and this experience does not inspire me to see any more. "},{"Title":"Way too Pretentious","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another Like this Film or You're an Idiot movie.  Just because Altman has a reputation as a great director does not mean all his movies are wonderful, or even watchable.  I was really looking forward to seeing Gosford Park, and was so horribly disappointed.  Give me the BBC's astonishingly wonderful Pride and Prejudice, or The Forsyte Saga, over the drivel that is Gosford Park any day. "},{"Title":"The borest movie ever! Another Altman Pret a Porte","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very disappointed.. This film is boring and w/o any sense. Crime plot is very take in and unconvicing.  ( This is my last Altman movie I ever seen I strongly dissuade watching it.  "},{"Title":"Agony, pure agony","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first 2,000,000 hours of this movie shows the differences between the Rich and the help. Upstairs/downstairs, if you will. The last 15 minutes of this movie is a murder mystery. I lived in England for three years, so I thought this would be interesting. It seemed more like a bad made for TV BBC movie. The sighs emitting from the theater as this torture progressed was immense. I can guarantee that nobody in the theater I was in enjoyed this movie. But, we paid our money and we were going to stay. Very poor choice. I truly don't understand how people enjoyed this film. I would ask them, but if they thought this movie was exciting, they would put me to sleep too. The name truly should be changed to God-awful Park. That would be truth in advertising. The murder mystery was too easy. I knew very quickly who did it. Good for insomniacs. "},{"Title":"Overrated,overblown tripe.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this from my local store,and sat down to it with extremely high hopes,and had them dashed considerably.I have watched it again since and still have not realised whom the killer was,and i will not be watching it again. "},{"Title":"Pure Hell!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The worst film I have ever seen!  A stunning cast have been turned into a bunch of 'nobodys' in this epic.  It was so drawn out and boring that I would have left the cinema earlier, had it not been for the price of the ticket (£7.50 for the record!)  The storyline had such potential, but was terrible.  This film is only for the sleep deprived.  (and Ryan Phillippe's accent was dire!!) "},{"Title":"Soporific Film of the Decade","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hereby award this film the most Soporific Film of the Decade.If you like staring at oil paintings and well - watching paint dry - you might actually like this. If you suffer from insomnia this might be a good cure.Otherwise, avoid at all costs.My vote is a 1 out of 10 for zero entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't even want to talk about this film, it's that boring and shallow. Yes, if 1930's England excites you, you'll like it, however, if you think a movie should have interesting characters that have depth, a story with a plot etc... then this is certainly not for you. This reminds me of the old BBC dramas, but without anything good.Throughout the film I desperately tried to stay awake in the hope that something would happen, ultimately disappointing. I actually feel robbed of the 2 hours or whatever it was...seemed to last an eternity.Having said all that, the people I watched the film with were impressed with it and would probably leave a comment similar to other good ratings on this site.You'll either love this film or hate it. If you like the genre, you'll no doubt love it. "},{"Title":"Zzzzz","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cardboard characters. CHECK! English mansion. CHECK! Upper classes. CHECK! Servant classes. CHECK! (and like David Duke says about the segregated South THEY ARE HAPPY THAT WAY)... And the classes are separated, Upstairs/ Downstairsstyle. CHECK! Dull pace. CHECK! Contrived dialog masquerading as banter. CHECK! Impassioned servants speaking wise philosophical analysis bordering on proverbs. CHECK! Ugly people having sex. CHECK! A murder in oder to make people pay attention to otherwise useless drivel. CHECK! Maybe this is not the worst film of all time, but with Robert Altman's imprimatur, it is the most overrated film in my memory. Watch this after you watch McCabe and Mrs. Miller and you will get the strange feeling that Robert Altman went soft on everyone. "}]