[{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Judi Dench's performance as Dame Iris Murdoch was not only flawless, pitch-perfect, and deeply moving, but it was also the performance of a lifetime. The Academy was ridiculous in overlooking her lost gazes, her subtle inflections in voice, her trembling hands, her puzzled mouth. Kate Winslet lost herself inside the young Iris, developing an entirely new set of facial expressions and voice tones. The movie accurately captures the intense passion for life and love that John Bayley describes in his novel, Elegy For Iris. Altogether, a brilliant film, concise, humurous, terribly sad--and enhanced by four brilliant performances. "},{"Title":"A Life in Love","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"40 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film succeeds where the overrated A Beautiful Mind fell short.  It puts its subject's life into perspective and gives a sense of her worldview and, needs, and desires--as opposed to just focusing on the illness.  I think it is also more effective in its use of different actors to portray the main characters at different ages, rather than using distracting age makeup, like in ABM.  I came away from this with a profound admiration for Iris Murdock, whereas I felt like I hardly got to know John Nash at all.But enough with the comparisons.  This film stands well on its own as a tribute to the companionship shared by Iris and her husband John Bayley throughout their long, complex, relationship.  Broadbent deserved that Academy Award, although I would say he plays more of a lead character than supporting.  Seeing Iris through Bayley's loving eyes is what makes the film an enriching experience.  He is the one who must adapt to her unconventional lifestyle, and their journey together is a rewarding one.One person who commented stated that this was another disease movie.  Funny how you never hear a complaints about another gangster movie or another romantic comedy or another suspense thriller.  SO WHAT?  First of all, it is not a disease movie, it is at its heart a romance, and a meaning of life film, much moreso than a film about Alzheimer's disease.  Secondly, the disease is the device used to illustrate their level of understanding and commitment to each other.  And finally, I cannot imagine telling Murdock's story WITHOUT giving the disease its proper weight in the course of the film.The scenes when the characters are younger are blended seamlessly with the latter day scenes.  Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville (uncannily resembling a young Broadbent) are very true to their older counterparts' personalities, and add yet another dimension to film.  All in all, this is a production of which director Richard Eyre and cast (and Bayley, who wrote the book on which the film is based) should be extremely proud.  It should have been seen by more people in 2001.  Grade A "},{"Title":"superior literary biography","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, inspired by John Bayley's memoir in tribute of his late wife, the novelist Iris Murdoch, gives us some insight into the final years of Murdoch as she struggled with the effects of Alzheimer's Disease, and shows us how her personality developed from the quirky, intelligent student of her young days into the self-assured, measured writer at her peak.Iris is played when young by Kate Winslet, whose portrayal veers from playful to irritating. As she grows older she morphs into the wonderful Judi Dench, giving a quite exceptional performance as the mature Murdoch. Playing John Bayley are two actors who uncannily resemble each other - Hugh Bonneville and Jim Broadbent. Broadbent was to win awards for his performance, and rightly so, although Bonneville was no less touching.In a well-balanced supporting cast we have Penelope Wilton, Sam and Timothy West, Eleanor Bron, and Juliet Aubrey, giving assured performances.Is 'Iris' truly a movie about a writer, and the business of writing and creativity? Well, no, as her writing is not central to the feel of the piece (although it does touch on her gift for words, and the tragic loss of the ability to process and work with them). It is something of a downbeat film, which will leave the more sensitive amongst you with damp eyes, but essentially it is an exceptional piece of work about the destructive power of dementia and Alzheimer's. "},{"Title":"If one doesn't have words how does one think?","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is one of those dramas that is so startlingly well acted and accurate to reality that you truly see the people on screen suffering through the story rather than the actors portraying them. And in a film that stars Judi Dench, that is a remarkable achievement. Dench and Kate Winslet are made to look so similar that when the film jumps back and forth between past and present, which it does quite often, it is never jarring no matter how abrupt it is. The young Iris, played by Winslet, is similar to the character that she played in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind in many ways. She is sexually adventurous without being promiscuous, independent without being unfriendly or unattached, and dependent without being needy or reliant. She ultimately pursues a successful career as a novelist, which serves to illustrate her love and dependence on words and to enhance the effect of her deterioration later in the film.Iris is famously a study of Alzheimer's disease, which is the kind of thing that rarely makes its way into mainstream films, so it is that much more moving that a movie as brilliant as this one takes on the subject and brings it to the forefront in such a dramatic fashion. Iris goes from being a tremendously successful novelist to not understanding which side of an open door she should pass in order to get through it. As she loses touch with reality and experiences more and more difficulty in speaking and understanding, the most moving scenes are the ones that show the suffering that her husband goes through before his own deterioration.Iris has spent her life exploring things like what it is that makes people happy and what makes them realize that they are happy once they are, and then shows as she loses touch with those things without even realizing it. Her husband, John Bayley, in a brilliant performance by Jim Broadbent, is the only man who she has ever been with that has truly loved her, and he is the one that has to watch her cognitive abilities decline. He is literally watching the love of his life slip away from him without her even realizing it.The film is beautifully shot and the musical score enhances the film spectacularly and unobtrusively. It brings out the emotions in a movie about losing not only memory, but about losing the your identity, losing yourself. The gradual nature of the onset of Alzheimer's disease is one of the most brilliantly presented elements in the film. There is a conversation that Iris and her husband have in which she gives him a quote, which he responds to in a way that shows his own mental decline, and then Iris' as well.Iris - Between two evils always choose the one you haven't tried before.John - Mae West. Oh my vest! I tore my vest again this morning!Iris - You must get some new vests.John &#150; Jolly good&#133;Iris &#150; You must get some new vests, then, surprised at herself, I just said that.This all kind of makes me wonder, because it is not very rare that I will ask someone a question that I already asked and they already answered, sometimes only a minute or two before, and when they tell me I just asked them that question I have to explain that I just wasn't sure if I had asked them out loud or just thought the question in my head. Where the answer ever went in my brain remains a mystery.It is very important that the movie spends so much time showing how much of a fiercely intelligent philosopher (in Kate Winslet's words) Iris Murdock was, because it emphasizes the totality with which Alzheimer's affects her ability to think. As a young woman she could talk circles around people, but when she grew older and Alzheimer's began to set in she became confused by the simplest concepts, and the difficulty that her husband found in attempting to explain things to her and hide what must have been his overwhelming emotion.I'm in the middle of reading a wonderful book by Sidney Lumet called Making Movies, and I just finished a chapter on actors, in which there is a section where he described some actors who believe so strongly in the material of a film that they will do whatever it takes to get the movie made. Many actors have taken salaries far below their usually asking prices in order to participate in a movie about which they felt very strongly, and Iris is one of those movies, although I don't know whether or not any of the actors took smaller salaries than they deserved. There is a short documentary on the DVD called 'A Look at Iris' in which the cast and crew talk about the movie, and it is clear how strongly they feel about the film. Kate Winslet nails it on the head in one clip, where she says that she knows that people who knew the real Iris Murdock would see the movie, so it was all the more important that she get the character exactly right. I love that.In Iris's own words, If one doesn't have words how does one think? That's exactly the question that this movie so touchingly explores. It is about people loving and then losing each other with torturous slowness, in one of the most moving and important films of 2001. "},{"Title":"Beautifully told but incomplete","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris tells of British novelist Iris Murdoch and her husband as they struggle together with her Alzheimer's affliction. The couple is portrayed in youth by Winslet and Bonneville and in old age by Dench and Broadbent with all delivering sterling performances. The plaintive and wistful story is told through interleaving scenes of the older couple's struggle with moments from the younger couple's life. As far as it goes, the film is an excellent product. What it doesn't deliver, however, is a deep sense of Murdoch, her philosophies and complexities of thought thereby giving greater depth to the character and a sense of the significance of what she is losing. In short, the film dwells too much on the disease and too little on the woman. Recommended for more mature viewers (B+)  "},{"Title":"Very difficult to put a life on screen but works very well as a look at Alzheimers","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris Murdock was an author and a shining light within the literary community in England.  As an older woman she holds the same enthusiasm but is gradually being given over to the effects of Alzheimers.  Her husband, John, tries to cope watching his wife slip away while he remembers how things were when they were young and falling in love.I knew of this film due to Broadbent rightly taking the Oscar for it (with an exclamation of `stone the crows!') but I noticed it wasn't really in the running for anything else and never got round to seeing it.  Seeing it now I am in two minds as to whether it works or not - I think it depends on what you take the film's aim to be.  As a story about Iris herself I didn't think it really worked.  It told me very little about her and didn't give me much to work with in regards her character or her relations when she was younger. We are given images and scenes from Iris and John's youth but I never felt that I ever really connected with who they were at that young age.  The stuff with them as an elderly couple works well but again it could have been any elderly couple and it made no difference to me that Iris was a writer or any woman.What works excellent is the portrait of an elderly couple struggling with the effects of Alzheimer's on their lives - hers as a sufferer and his as one watching his wife vanish day by day.  I was very moved by all of that side of the film and found some of it very hard to watch.  Most of this is due to Broadbent and it is this that he won his Oscar for.  I felt his pain throughout the film and it was intense considering what a normal cheerful old man he played.  Dench is excellent and her portrayal of Iris is very strong in terms of being an Alzheimers sufferer but not so much as a character I'm meant to learn about.  The playing of both Winslet and Bonneville is good but I came away with the feeling that they were just assigned to do impressions of their senior co-stars; they don't manage to shed light on the past very much but they are good background.Overall this film is not great if you are expecting to learn about Iris the author.  However a film about Alzheimers it excels and is well worth seeing. Broadbent is wonderful and deserved his Oscar - his pain and his loss is so very real throughout the film that it is impossible not to feel something even if the film doesn't manage to do great development with the characters. "},{"Title":"Shattering","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This episodic story of Iris Murdoch, best selling novelist, and her husband John Bayley, is not for the faint-hearted. There are no illusions here, and those that seem to exist are shattered by grim reality.The film pulls no punches, showing Iris as a self-absorbed, stream-of-consciousness woman who becomes ill with Alzheimer's disease. Her husband, in sickness and in health, seems to always be a step behind her. However, he is enthralled with her - totally devoted and ultimately alone.Yet, this portrait is beautiful and episodic, filled with symbolism, wonderful flashbacks, and the threads of a relationship built and undone. The four leads are just wonderful, with Jim Broadbent deservedly receiving an Oscar for his performance. Superb cinematography, editing, and direction support the actors and the great script.Highly recommended. I give it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Performances, But Only a Good Movie.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris is an intense character-study that is full of bravura performances, but is also a film that struggles for greatness and never quite reaches the mark. Iris Murdoch was a great English novelist, arguably the greatest of her time, but Alzheimer's would strike the writer and eventually take away everything needed to continue her literary work. The film splits in two between Murdoch's early life (played by Oscar-nominee Kate Winslet) and her latter life (Oscar-nominee Judi Dench). What we see is Murdoch's relationship with her true love and future-husband John Bayley (Hugh Bonneville in the early sequences and Oscar-winner Jim Broadbent in the latter stages). Iris struggles as it goes back and forth between the early years and the latter years of Murdoch's life. This makes the film like a jumping-jack that just does not know when to quit. The film is not complimentary to Murdoch in her early years as she is shown as a teasing bi-sexual who basically uses men and women for her own personal gain. She is also shown as a somewhat cruel person who intentionally and unintentionally hurts those closest to her. Dench, on the other hand, plays Murdoch as a woman slowly losing control of those things most important to her. There are definitely flashes and similarities between the four actors who play the two characters flawlessly. Broadbent is best, but his Oscar win is not dominant by any stretch of the imagination. The film also looks somewhat cheap and rushed at times. It is just so British and the production values are not near as high as they really should have been. However, the film does show the Alzheimer's Disease in a very accurate way. Those who have seen it firsthand (I have) will find the film very difficult to get through because the research done for the movie is second-to-none. Those who are not familiar with the disease will find the film intriguing and interesting. Iris is a fine effort and the performances save the day on more than one occasion, but overall the film is not quite what the film-makers had hoped it would be by the final act. 4 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Good movie that dwells too much on Iris Murdoch's declining years.","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has an all-star cast -- Judi Dench as Iris Murdoch, Jim Broadbent as her husband, John Bayley, Kate Winslet as the young Iris Murdoch, and Hugh Bonneville as the young John Bayley. The actors have physical appearances that makes it easy to believe we are seeing the same characters young and old. The editing is interesting, often cutting back and forth between the young and old characters within a scene. I am not familiar with any of her works, but I have learned that Iris Murdoch was a very fine and prolific writer. She loved the language, and had a very unconventional outlook on life. This film seems to be more about her onset of Alzheimer's and her husband's trying to deal with it, rather than a story about Iris and how she came to be who she was. The story they chose not to explore I believe would have made a more interesting movie. For me Kate Winslet was the real star of the film, playing the younger Iris, and I came away wishing the film had spent much more time on her story. While the later Alzheimer years are important and interesting, too much of the film dwelled on these latter years.  "},{"Title":"Alzheimer's 101","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Director and Screenwriter of Iris, Richard Eyre, states during the special features DVD Commentary that one cannot understand the enormity of the loss to Alzheimer's of the protagonist, novelist Iris Murdoch, without appreciating what was lost. So he divides the story of Iris into the present day narrative of her deterioration due to Alzheimer's and flashbacks to the courtship and eventual marriage of the younger Iris (played by Kate Winslet) to Professor John Bayley back in the 1950s. The young Bayley is played by Hugh Bonneville who bears a striking resemblance to Jim Broadbent, who plays the elderly Bayley opposite Judi Dench as the now afflicted elderly Iris.Because Eyre approaches Murdoch as a virtual seminal figure in the history of world literature, the flashback scenes add up to nothing much more than a hagiography. While the contrast between the two personalities, the mercurial, flirtatious Iris and bookish academician Baley should lead to some gripping tension, in the end there is scant conflict between the two. Yes, Iris's voluminous affairs are alluded to and there is one scene where she and Bayley have a protracted argument regarding those affairs, in the end however, there is little we learn that is interesting about the earlier relationship. While Eyre has the benefit of Bayley's recent recollections concerning the extent and scope of Iris's deterioration, the flashbacks are obviously based on distant memories of the relationship. In short, I don't believe that Eyre has made his case that there was a great 'loss' based on his portrait of the early Iris. As a young woman she flirted and had affairs with other men; eventually she matured and was a nurturing presence in not-so-confident John Bayley's life. Eyre's flashbacks are photographed quite nicely and the setting evokes the bygone era of the 50s. But I still want to know what is so special about Iris Murdoch. I might find that out reading her books, but it certainly is not conveyed here in this film.Eyre is on much more solid in ground the retelling of Murdoch's decline in more recent times. Judi Dench is excellent (as usual) as a woman who gradually deteriorates due to the ravages of Alzheimer's. The decline is subtle at the beginning as we see Dench struggle with language. Later, in a memorable scene, she is unable to recall the name of the then current British Prime Minister, Tony Blair (but remembers it later). When her novel arrives in the mail, she shows no awareness that she's the author and is more perturbed by the presence of the mailman (it's only the postman). More harrowing scenes follow as she deteriorates further, she wanders out of the house, only to be found hours later by a former friend who attended their wedding (and who Bayley fails to recognize!); upon being told of the death of a close friend, Iris freaks out, grabs the wheel of the car Bayley is driving which results in an accident&#x97;she's thrown from the car but ends up lying in the woods on the side of the road, virtually uninjured.Jim Broadbent received the best supporting Oscar for his performance in Iris and it's well deserved. At first Bayley is in denial about Iris's condition. He continues to treat her as if she's normal. In a classic study of the stages of grief, Bayley (a suppressed character to begin with) finally lets out his frustration and anger as Iris's condition takes a turn for the worse. Eventually there's acceptance, despite Iris's complete loss of memory. At the end, Bayley is forced to put Iris in a home but is right there with her as she passes on.Iris is a graceful and beautifully photographed film. While the examination of Iris and John Baley's early relationship is superficial, the chronicle of Iris's sad decline is a textbook study of what happens to people when they end up afflicted with Alzheimer's. What's more, Broadbent and Dench, convey the intimate bond between the two characters despite the overwhelmingly trying circumstances. "}{"Title":"Moving Experience, with Superb Dench","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is too short.I wanted more about Iris Murdoch before she descends into Alzheimer's disease (stunningly portrayed by Judi Dench), other than a few lectures, and more explanation on why the young Iris fixed on her husband.I haven't read the memoirs by the husband; it's possible that because the books and thence the movie are from his view point that we can't get inside Iris's head young, old, or befuddled. The Young Iris segments mostly point up again that Kate Winslet has a beautiful naked body (was this before or after her baby?) and I didn't see how she did enough otherwise to justify the award nominations.The Young Husband looks amazingly like the old Broadbent, so that the flashbacks are completely seamless, and both are terrific.It's nice to see on screen a house as much of a mess as mine, filled with reading material, but I think we were supposed to react negatively at the sight and scream doesn't the British health services provide home health aides? Altogether a very moving movie, helped by James Horner's music, especially sympathetic to what a caregiver goes through.(originally written 3/3/2002) "},{"Title":"Not O'Keefe's Iris","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I was disappointed, greatly disappointed in this film. It has three very good actors and one truly great complex one (Winslet). It deals with an intelligent woman, rich potential for an intelligent film. Eyre has shown a gift for understanding how to stage the life and art of a mind, writing a book on the subject. The co-screenwriter did some multidimensional work in the past.You can see how cleverly they tried to work out the difficulties how to portray a woman with a great mind and the tragedy of her loosing it -- how to infer the richness of her internal life, so that we can grieve for something more than an old lady.The construction was promising overlapping symmetries of then vs now; internal life vs external action; extraordinary clarity of thought vs complete loss of reason; writing vs motion; sexual opportunism vs deep marriage. Of these, the main skeleton is then vs now; and one can clearly see that the hodgepodge of then/now juxtapositions is supposed be jarring, nonsensical reflection the woman's dementia. This is an intelligent idea, shaping the form of the narrative to mirror its substance, which in fact is just what Iris would have done. `Requiem for a Dream' did that bluntly; here, we'd have a reason a heroine which IS a master of narrative.Promising. Even more with Kate aboard. The heavy lifting in this construction has to be carried by her. Dench and Broadbent get the flashy parts, but they are the easy roles. They get to play things straight, and if they fail to present a coherent being, well that's the point. Winslet has to lay the foundation. She has to create two characters, the internal one of the mind, and the external on. Each of those have to have two faces the one of construction (in the 50's) and the one of reflection. She creates Dench's character; all Dench has to do is use that as the basis from which to subtract.So far so good. But two main problems ruin this.The first is that everything depends on a collaboration between Winslet and Dench. One needs to pitch, the other catch. But Dench will have none of this, sticking to her old ways. Absolute poison. I have no complaint about her work normally, because usually all she has to do is show up and do her thing without getting into a big philosophical folding. But not here. As a result, Kate looks silly setting up mannerisms and notions that aren't reflected later on. This especially noticeable because Bonneville and Broadbent do collaborate in this way, though the demands are limited to physical mannerisms, not the internal beacon of insight.The other problem is that the then/now juxtaposition is watered down. I mean that in part literally the tired old device of sensual swimming as an unfettered, exuberant life is used in an especially heavy way, complete with the falling rock bit. But there is a more fundamental watering down as well, and one can imagine Eyre seeing his vision melt under the guidance of the many, many sponsors involved. Gone is most of the adventure of sex as an intellectual construct. Gone is most of the free association confusion of the edits. Gone is the creation of the odd marriage compact involving Maurice. What is left means nothing. There is a potentially powerful scene where Maurice brings Iris back to a Bayley who doesn't recognize him. He finds her while food shopping; previously, he didn't have enough `food' to entice Iris to let him into her world. One can see that the early meal has been restructured, even reshot note how Maurice's mustache changes from moment to moment.Oh well. At least we have Kate. Actors like this are always interesting. Emma Thompson, herself capable of multidimensional acting when sober, recognized what Kate has and gave her the big break in `Sense and Sensibility.' Here, Kate returns the favor by introducing Emma into the picture. Kate presents not Iris, but Kate presenting Emma presenting Iris. The reading of the lines and the haircut are from a similar role Emma played in `Carrington,' a more successful film. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Disappointing","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris seemed to have all the makings of a great film at the outlook. It is supposed to be of an interesting person and who many consider a genius. The cast seems to amazingly put together and the film is made of a notable director. Yet this film is lacking a lot in many aspects.Now the acting is the one thing that was not lacking, especially considering the way the rest of the movie went. The performances were the only thing that gave me hope for a fulfilling movie. Especially when it came to that of a prominent couple and a famous well rounded woman. That woman is played by two of the finest actresses; Kate Winslet and Judi Dench play Iris Murdoch at the opposite ends of her life. These casting choices were perfect as well as the choice of Jim Broadbent who plays the role of the older Jim Bayley. These choices are ideal and the film is came some what alive only because of them. They gave depth to their roles were not too much was given and made us feel emotions for characters that didn't come off as too interesting in the film.Where this film does very much fail is the directing and writing by Ricard Eyre. The pacing of the film is horrible and our view of Iris Murdoch and Jim Bayley is extremely limited. Rather than them coming across as intellectuals, we are simply just told they are that. The story basically surrounds that of Iris Murdoch's battle with Alzheimer's disease and for not really any logical reason the telling of her early life is wasted. If you take Murdoch and Bayley for what they are in the film they come off as desperate and pathetic. Also in the movie their is not enough of a build up towards the end to make us feel anything emotional towards the characters. The film drags on with no climax at all and this movie is only about 90 minutes. This movie was supposed to be a short romance instead of a biopic and that proved to be very costly in a very boring and seemingly pointless film. "},{"Title":"Review Iris","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Review- Iris The Film Iris I about a writer there gets Alzheimer's disease. Iris is a sad and frustrating film, not least because it can't get out from under its own sadness and frustration. But the film renders this terrible loss with clichés rather than insights. It's difficult not to respond to the tear-jerking devices (perhaps especially if you've any experience with Alzheimer's patients), but it's also difficult not to see them as devices. While the film does include a lovey-dovey scene or two, it's more interested in the more exciting moments, the ways Iris makes John's life rather hellish, before and after the disease. True as this may have been, this choice of emphasis doesn't give the film much time to consider her work or thinking, supposedly key aspects of her appeal to John and everyone else. I think the film give us a great chance to see how it is to have a Alzheimer's disease and how the relatives focus on the life story of a dementia patient. "},{"Title":"Review of Iris 1","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film, Iris, written by Richard Eyre in 2001 is a British-American biographical drama film. The story tell us about a British novelist, Iris Murdock, and her relationship with John Bayley. Iris was an outgoing individual, who became sick, and the story tell us how it is to live with an Alzheimer's disease. We see a lot of throwback's of how John's and Iris' life was before she got sick, in their youth. I think it's a nice sequence when we experience the swimming in the lake both as young and elderly. It's a symbol of a clearing process and a rebirth for Iris. It's a beautiful story of a lifelong romance, and how to overcome the problems that follow a life with the dementia disease. I think the film give us a great general view of how it is to be a relative person in a dementia patients' life. "},{"Title":"Impeccably acted and heart-wrenching","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Essentially this is the story of love, loss and human frailty, and what a story it is. It is so truthful, powerful and heart-wrenching. The film is beautiful to watch too, with the cinematography and settings just exquisite, complete with a lovely score, a touching script and sensitive direction from Richard Eyre where he directs with a sharp academic mind. And the parallel flashbacks are beautifully done. What makes Iris are the strength of the performances, because the acting is just brilliant in this film. Judi Dench is wonderful as always, and Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville are believable too, but the best performances for me come from Jim Broadbent as her devoted husband Jim Bayley and Penelope Wilton as society hostess Janet Stone. In conclusion, it is a beautiful and very poignant film, so much so it hurts. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"What a film","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved all her books - and did not want to read this one, though I usually am a sucker for inside information. I did not want to peep. I peeped. All through the movie. Goosebumps. Oh my! And reminds of Granny, at that!Actor work throughout was stunning, and I think that if only one Oscar was there for the taking, it should have been unawarded. All three certainly deserved it. In all its awfulness, it still was a beautiful film. A film about love, and truth, and about being good, and about all the secrets that all of us carry within us. Do see it! "},{"Title":"A Window peek into the absolute life of Iris Murdoch!","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just a peek, but a good one nevertheless. Kate Winslet, Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent and Hugh Bonneville, how could you go wrong eh? The former two play young and old Iris respectively, while the latter two play old and young John Bayley respectively. The film mostly deals with Old Iris and John flash-backing on their lives from when they met up until the present as Iris slowly fades away in the clutching arms of Alzheimers disease. It is heartbreaking to watch and all the actors who portray these characters are in their element as they bring them so vivaciously to life. Broadbent won an academy award for his turn as John Bayley while Winslet and Dench were both Oscar nominated as well. Winslet plays young Iris to a pulp! touching on everything from her bisexuality, her love of the sea, nudity, spontaneity, to her philandering ways which ultimately broke Bayley's heart even though he stuck by her till the end. A great film to watch but be prepared to cry. "},{"Title":"All things considered, half of a good movie","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dench and Broadbent do a fantastic job charting the devolution of Iris' faculties as she struggles with Alzheimer's; the problem with this film is during the flashback scenes. Winslet is average, not great in her portrayal, but that's partially because the script doesn't present Iris Murdoch in her early days as a very sympathetic character. Instead of coming off as a free spirit she's far more of a sexually confused egotistical dilantette who uses everyone around her. Scenes where Iris is supposedly revealing her shady past and her motivations fall completely flat...there's not enough of a sense of vulnerability or that she really NEEDS her husband. Ultimately that takes away from the Dench-Broadbent storyline. I felt badly for Broadbent's character as he clearly was in way over his head trying to take care of Iris, but I was puzzled as to why he stayed with her in the first place as she treated him so awfully when they were young. The flashbacks also aren't handled quite right, the interaction between the present and past scenes is too jarring. I suspect that it was a conscious choice to do it that way in an attempt to describe the ravages of Alzheimer's, but the film really suffers as a story because of it. This film would have been better served as a straight linear narrative without the constant flashbacks, focusing on either the young or old stage of Iris' life.  "},{"Title":"a big void","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even a movie that doesn't purport to get to the meat and potatoes of its subject needs to give a frame of reference. The shift between Iris and John's old and young selves was maddening. Did they just leap over middle age? I imagine they had many adventures, adventures that would've helped us understand what made them tick.I can see why Iris was attracted to the novelty of being with John he's a sweet puppy, someone you'd take to Mom. But he's not a serious affair and certainly not a life partner. Indeed, his willingness to be her doormat is such that his outbursts come off as forced, as if Eyre suddenly realized that John was in serious danger of becoming a martyr.But Eyre wimps out with Iris's relationships with Maurice and Janet. The second we see him, we know Maurice is a gay man who switch hits with Iris, hence, his viciousness when she unexpectedly brings John along for dinner. Yet while John seems clueless about Maurice, he is quite accepting of Janet, either because she is a woman or he expects Iris to shag whomever.And why does she cheat? Is what attracts her to John the same thing that repels her? Is fidelity a concept that she has rejected as Man's imposed will on Woman? Is she amoral? Or is he just lousy in the sack? Your guess is as good as mine.As far as the acting, what do you expect from Dame Judi and Kate Winslet? Too bad they didn't have anything real to work with. "}{"Title":"Iris","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is a movie that is about romance and illness Alzheimer, the movie takes place over a longer period, where we follow the character Iris Murdoch which was a great British novelist and her husband John Bayley which is her last love. The movie has many good qualities, but one of the most important is that the movie is based on a true story, which gives a different experience to see the film. You find it easier to empathize with the movie, which also makes the film more interested, since it is actually something that can happen to anyone. The movie takes place two different places, one place is real life, and the second place is back in time, where we are in the woman's thoughts. It can be a weakness for the movie, as the movie constantly jumps back and forth between the years, and it can quickly become confused. I think it has been a good movie, which shows an older woman's love life and career. The movie structure is confusing because it constantly jumps in time. I will evaluate the movie 4 out of 5 star. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Poetic, Honest","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a constant reminder of our mortality. The mind fades but we recall the most cherished memories. I remember my grandmother, as she was in her final stages of Alzheimer's, clearly looking into my eyes and her expression changed. She remembered I was important to her.This film captured the radiance and vibrancy of Iris' spirit and the deep, simple love and passion between two kindred souls. I can only dream to find this love of my own. I sobbed from beginning to end for many reasons i.e. sorrow, the true beauty of love, the importance of the senses, thinking, feeling and acting on our own desires...This is a reminder of what exactly film is which is TRUE art. All three main characters' acting was simply amazing and truly believable. However, heed my advice, you must be in the right mind frame. This is not a light hearted piece.  "},{"Title":"My thoughts about the film","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the film show how it can be to suffering from dementia. Both for the ones who is suffering, and for the relatives who is standing around, and have lots of feelings between. The relatives is hurt in an other way, which can be difficult for outstanding to understand. Sometimes you get so frustrated, because the ones with dementia is changing in the way they act. In this film, John really trying to keep the personality of Iris. He is trying to understand her, to know her kind of language and to remind her of herself as she was, and what she was supposed to do. I think this perspective is really important, and we also see how the relatives, here John, don't always have the resources to handle the situation, as he wants to do. We see the frustrations, and how angry he gets. In the end she is moving to a nursing home. She seems to find it okay, and she seems to be happy there. It give John lots of peace in his heart. I think he should had had some support much earlier in the process. It is different how a person suffering from dementia are reacting, when they have to move. Normally, it is important to make the move to the nursing home soon as possible, because it isn't easy for a dementia to move. But here, it was luckily going easy and without pain. If think the film is going too quickly over the processes in the suffering. It is going very quickly, from where Iris experience, that she can't remember and till the dementia is taking over her life. I think we could use more details, and a longer review of the process. I know it is hard to get all the details and the real time-perspective in a film, but I think it is sad that we are going so quickly through the process. I think we miss many very important thinks in the suffering for dementia. "},{"Title":"Enriches the soul, cautions the heart not to take life or love for granted.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A tender rendering of life's two most precious gifts... unconditional love and time. A celebration of the mind, the heart, and a life well lived. Paints the picture of what unconditional love looks like and how luscious it can feel at all stages of life. Reminded me to embrace life with all the gusto I can and to celebrate, not fear, that which makes me different. Not lost on me, was the simple warning not to engage in behaviors that might haunt my later years. As I, at middle age, have not yet found my life partner, I yearn for such unconditional acceptance and deep fulfillment...yet fear time is already leveraging itself against our shared joys. Like an actor playing the character named Time, Alzheimer's provides only one interpretation of time leveraging joy. Any disease could have played the role of time as a thief...the soulful message of the movie would remain the same.Watch this with someone you love, someone learning to accept care from those who already love them, or with someone who's soul is on the precipice of truly living well....but watch it, we all must. "},{"Title":"One of the Years Greatest","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This study of human emotion is one that should not be missed.  The subject is dear to my heart in that I am a neurologist and can well appreciate the tremendous emotional turmoil that a family goes through in facing a member with SDAT, Senile Dementia of the Alzheimer's Type.  The three stages are well depicted, and Judy Dench deserved her nomination for this masterpiece.  Even the sensual scenes are handled delicately and tastefully, so that they meld into this perfect performance.  It is a Two Thumbs Upper for sure. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances, story slacks off","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are biographies which attempt to tell the story of one's life with as much emotion and as much intensity as possible. Iris tries so hard to do so that it eventually slacks off in the end. Iris is the story of female writer Iris Murdoch, a world-renowned author who suffered Alzheimer's disease. Through the love and guidance of her husband, fellow author John Bailey, she was able to enjoy the last moments of her life and not feel frightened by death. Iris is played brilliantly by Dame Judi Dench and deserved an Oscar nomination for her role. Her facial expressions and personification of the character made us realize what Iris had become and made the audience feel sad. Equally compelling is Jim Broadbent as John Bailey, who gives a pitch-perfect performance as a husband who knows he has lost the woman he loves. He misses the fiery passion of Iris and longs for the freedom that she once had. Throughout the film, we are able to see glimpses of Iris's past and are able to see her freedom to speak her mind. We learn that she was indeed a passionate woman who was not afraid to express her sexuality and opinion on matters such as politics or society. Young Iris is played effectively by Kate Winslet and makes the audience realize with her tone of voice and character improvisation that the real Iris Murdoch was once a magnificent storyteller. The film is good performance wise and makes the audience realize that you could expect no more from such fine and respected actors. However, it is in the storyline in which the film loses its balance. It does not maintain the same passion as the actors present to the project and leaves us with a lot of questions and not enough satisfaction at the end of the film. The writers left a lot of details out of Iris's life and that is why the film is so poor. The storyline instead makes the audience hungry for more than what they bargained for. What we see on the screen is this interpretation of a woman's life that is a knockout performance wise. However, it leaves the audience with questions rather than answers.Lenny's Grade **1/2 "},{"Title":"A Touching Love Story","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is a biographical picture that tells a true story of British novelist Iris Murdoch and her relationship with John Bayley. It contrasts the start of their relationship, when Murdoch was an outgoing, dominant individual as compared to her timid and scholarly partner Bayley, and their their old age,when Murdoch was suffering from Alzheimer's disease and tended to by a frustrated Bayley in their North Oxford home in Charlbury Road.This film stars Judi Dench as Iris,Kate Winslet as the young Iris,Jim Broadbent as John and Hugh Bonneville as the young John.The screenplay was written by Richard Eyre and Charles Wood Bayley's memoir Elegy for Iris and it was directed also by Richard Eyre.The story is told wherein the young Iris Murdoch meets fellow student John Bayley at the University of Oxford, he is a naive virgin easily flummoxed by her libertine spirit, arch personality, and obvious artistic talent. It also tells in parallel their life decades later, little has changed and the couple keeps house, with John doting on his more famous wife when Iris begins experiencing forgetfulness and dementia.However, the devoted John struggles with hopelessness and frustration to become her caretaker, as his wife's mind deteriorates from the ravages of Alzheimer's disease.This is a touching film about two people who love each other and it gives us insights the pain and suffering that people undergo when stricken by Alzheimer's disease and the pain experienced by the people surrounding them.The performances of all four actors are worthy of praise especially Judi Dench,who captured the older Iris.The only thing about it that it failed to get a perfect rating is that the film isn't powerful and compelling enough to make it a great film.But regardless of the reason stated,Iris is a highly recommended for everyone who like great romantic stories. "},{"Title":"Worth A Watch...","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris Murdoch's life unfolds emotionally in 'Iris'. This biopic shows the strength and weakness of this late legendary novelist with ease. Director Richard Eyre's version of showing this biopic has nudity, frustration and beyond all, love.'Iris' is crispy executed in 90-minutes in running-time. Some sequences are brilliantly done, the inter-cuts are smoothly removed at times, and selfishly put back again. The culmination is very sensitively executed, and leaves a tear in your eye.Richard Eyre has made a memorable biopic, no two options on that! He deserves a pat for handling the emotional portions with such ease. Roger Pratt's Cinematography compliments wonderfully to Eyre's direction.Performance-Wise It's a Judi Dench show all the way. The legendary Actress plays Iris, when suffering Alzheimer's disease, flawlessly. Jim Broadbent as Iris's husband John Bayley, is very sincere. Kate Winslet as the young and peppy Iris, is absolutely lovable. Hugh Bonneville as young Bayley, does well.On the whole, This Biopic Is Truly Worth A Watch! "},{"Title":"A renowned couple deal with life's cruel fate","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is a very moving film, in which Judi Dench and James Broadbent portray the ageing characters of Iris Murdoch and John Bayley, still much in love, as together they deal with Iris's Alzeimer's disease. The film is based on John Bayley's book of the real-life struggle which he and his famous literary wife endured. This stage of life is neither sad nor pathetic, but two people facing together life's sometimes cruel fate.We see through a series of flashbacks how they met and forged a lifelong relationship. The younger Iris and John are performed by Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville, as a fun-loving couple cycling through the countryside and going for swims off the nearest riverbank. Iris was a worldly woman involved with multiple male partners and John, a late-bloomer with a stutter, who doted on the gorgeous young Iris. Eventually, Iris settled into her role as a national literary figure, giving interviews and speeches in which beautifully crafted sentences rolled off her tongue. Then, rather suddenly, she was stricken with Alzeimer's disease.I was reminded of my own grandparents' fight with Alzeimer's as I watched Judi Dench in Iris Murdoch's character. Like my grandmother, Iris lost contact with reality and life ceased to make sense to her; yet, there were moments when she let us know that she still treasured those who cared for her. Physically strong and able to go for long walks, Iris had stamina that far surpassed her capacity to understand. These are the cruel ironies of Alzeimer's disease. As John Bayley, James Broadbent was the loving and faithful husband, who gave his all until he reached his own breaking point and agreed to put her in a home.Other actors who appear are Samuel West and Timothy West (in a brief cameo) as Iris's friend and John's rival Maurice in youth and old age; Juliet Aubrey and Penelope Wilton, as her friend Janet.John Bayley's book about Iris's illness has produced a fine film with great acting and an honest treatment of a real-life situation. "},{"Title":"Que reste-t-il de nos amours?","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" IrisA film about Irish Murdoch, renown British writer, who of Alzeihmer's and old age died. This is predominantly a story about love. Irish Murdoch marries John Bayley and they live a life together, until she dies. Rather simple, and rather straightforward. No surprises in this movie, and yet it is very beautiful one. One would think that to love is beyond words. But not for Iris. Her life evolved around words, and she famously said Without words, how can one think? and yet she lost the ability to speak and think the way we do as she grew old. A rather ironic turn of events. But the story needed to be told. The love of John Bayley for Iris, throughout their young years until their old age was one that needed to be told. It goes without staying that with the heavy stardom of this movie, with the likes of Kate Winslet, Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent, acting is superb throughout. Take for example the scene where John& Iris return from the house of the man who was not the chosen by Iris as her boyfriend. John is rather disappointed that he has not read Iris' new book and says so as they walk back through the sunny street. Iris then turns on the threshold of her house, with a look of fear in her eyes, and doubt, and this is beautifully played. Or during the rather touching moments of John swimming in the ocean with his clothes on. What is more funny and cute than that, that shows love and simplicity and the joy of life?For the faint-hearted, this may bring some tears to your eyes, and for the rest, apart from the imbeciles that would actually not like this movie (not the ones that'd get bored, that I may understand) but who'd genuinely not like it, well, that is your problem, because a story has never been so nicely played out in its simplicity and with little words, in contrast to Iris' prolific writing.No reason to put stars for this movie, we are not in class anymore. Go see it! You will not be disappointed, and you will love it! "}{"Title":"This isn't a film about Iris, it's about John","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Broadbent won a well deserved Oscar for his work in this film, leaving Kate Winslet and Dame Judi Dench as also-rans for once. Iris Murdoch was a fantastic writer, but the film is not about her, it's about her husband's loss of her to Alzheimer's. The flaw is that it keeps on focusing on her without showing us who she is. Because her talent was in her books and her mind, we are told what he's lost, we only get a sort of superficial Iris. We see literally, from the young John Bayley's perspective where their relationship sprung from, but learn little about why her work meant anything or even if it did really mean anything to him. We know she was was fantastic with words, but they're not in the script because while Winslet and Dench do a great job, the script is John's story. The fact that John Bayley was married to one of the greatest writers of the 20th century should not have distracted the directors attention from the fact that this story was never about her. "},{"Title":"The Acting is Unbelievably Good but....","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would not send any one to see this movie who is not contemplating suicide and who requires a bit of encouragement. This is a two-sided tale, skillfully mixed together the growing love between the young Iris Murdoch (Kate Winslet) and the young John Bayley (Hugh Bonneville) and the tragic deterioration into Alzheimer's disease of the older Iris Murdoch (Judi Dench) and strain it puts on her loving husband, the older John Bayley (Jim Broadbent). Although most of the critical acclaim has gone to Dench and Winslet, their foils, Broadbent and Bonneville, hold up their end remarkably well. While it is barely possible that Kate Winslet might have aged into Judi Dench, the resemblance between Broadbent and Bonneville as his younger self is absolutely eerie, down to the clumsy mannerisms that both display. I can't think of a more seamlessly integrated, better acted intergenerational pairing than this film contains. And yet there is something seriously lacking namely, any persuasive demonstration that Ms. Murdoch was the literary genius that others in the film assert she was. Admittedly, it would have been difficult to do. Writing genius is notoriously difficult to depict. A written or spoken narrative, a couple of semi-documentary interviews might have served (at the expense, to be sure, of the continuity of the story). But for those who've never read any of Iris Murdoch's novels, this film is no more than a personal love story ending in a personal tragedy. Moreover, the love story itself is unconvincing. Winslet is a flaming beauty and the basis for her attraction to the clumsy, homely Bonneville is not shown, though one infers that it is intellectual compatibility. I wish I could say that the acting alone is sufficient to earn the highest possible rating. But if you can't quite credit the original romance and you are given no basis to believe in the greatness of the title character, those faults are serious enough to drop my rating of the film from a 10 to an 8. "},{"Title":"Every Emotion Is Triggered","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found Iris to be a brilliant film that stirred a vast array of emotions inside of me. I felt anger at Iris' treatment of John, I felt pity towards John because of these, yet at the same time such admiration for John. Iris made me laugh and cry. Iris had me reflecting on my own life, and I felt incredibly scared that I might not have the unconditional love and support of someone to care for me, and that I may have to journey such a hardship alone. Iris entertains and educates about the harrowing Alzheimers, and how Alzheimers can attack even the most brilliant of minds.A must see, but keep the tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not familiar with Iris Murdoch's works or with Bayley's writings about her, so I came to the movie with a blank slate and an open mind. I knew that this film had been nominated for several Academy Awards, but I only recently saw it and I was glad that I did. Every performance was certainly deserving of the award nominations received and, in the case of Broadbent, won. Iris succeeded in providing an interesting, intelligent, compassionate, realistic portrayal of life-long love between complicated personalities. Having watched elderly relatives struggle to cope with infirmities in those they have been married to for over 60 years, Broadbent's depiction of frustration, pain, regret, bursts of anger, and despair rang very true to me. Kate Winslet's portrayal of the young Iris was very interesting to me although I didn't understand all of Iris' motivations. Judi Dench's rendering of the failing Iris was excruciating to watch. A good film and I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"There was a lot of potential throughout the whole film, but it just didn't deliver in the end.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen `Iris' I must stress that I didn't dislike the whole movie, because of the terrific performances by Kate Winslet, Judy Dench and Jim Broadbent, who got academy award nominations, which were well deserved.Judy Dench gives a tender performance. She is an amazing old Iris who knows how to show real emotions without overdoing it. She was perfect for this part, and she really is similar to the young Iris played by Kate Winslet. Kate Winslet stands out as well. She's used to being nude in most of her movies, but in this movie she just doesn't do it for fun, but to show others that when you're in love, you don't mind swimming naked with your mate. Her kiss with another woman wasn't gratuitous; her character was brilliant, very individual, very independent, and tough for a man to live with.Jim Broadbent gives a convincing performance. His age shows his experience as an actor and how well he plays any character he's asked for.  This is one of the few times I agree with the Academy, since they decided to give the Oscar to this great actor, who never disappoints.    The story is about love, and how it can grow over time. We see young Iris and young Jim fall in love and remember their story and how they met with each other. One remarkable scene is when Iris and her husband nearly crashed and then they kiss each other while being on the grass close to the street. The movie becomes really predictable once we know that Iris has a disease; it's obvious she's going to die in the end; however, I was expecting a surprise or something, but it just ended like that, with nothing-unusual happening.Overall this is an interesting movie that shows how much two people can love each other, no matter what! Unfortunately the movie is very predictable, so nothing moving or interesting happens in the end. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A good movie, not about Alzheimers, but how their relationship evolved in spite of it","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie, with its interesting way of intersecting back and forth in time, showed us the evolving relationship between Iris and her husband/suitor John during a time in which there is greatest change.  It showed how their relationship was in the beginning, with the younger John tagging along the wild Iris, even though he would have accepted any type of girl that talked to him, he is glad she even noticed him.  He initially accepts her for the way she is in order not to lose her, but eventually accepts her that way because that is what makes her her.  Then we could see the elder John and Iris, their relationship as tight as ever that evolved in part to their use of language to express every little thing that comes up to their mind, and John the ever caring person, who in times of despair, provides more caring love than anyone ought to under the circumstances.The acting were all good, Winslet as the younger Iris who was wild and carefree, Dench as the elder Iris slowly losing her mind,  Hugh Bonneville as the young John, who hitched along the wild ride of Iris and is frequently confused about his role in the relations, and Jim Broadbent as the elder John, the ever accepting younger John turned older, and who had to deal with the deteriorating state or his wife.At the end, the most important lost felt is not for a great writer, but for the lost of a life-long loved companion.  "},{"Title":"A very good film, much emphasised by excellent performances.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Magnificent performances abound in Richard Eyre's film, 'Iris'. Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent as the elderly Iris Murdoch and John Bayley, respectively, and Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville as the young lovers are all excellent, although Dench isn't given much to work with in the later half of the film, wandering aimlessly, not speaking and generally looking very ill. Winslet gives a beautifully refined performance as the young Dame Murdoch, as does both Bonneville as the lovingly goofy Bayley &#150; Jim Broadbent's identical other half (albeit, much younger). The film could've been great, but it sadly doesn't reach those heights. Very much a performance driven film, based on the real lives of the Murdoch's, it seems to skirt many issues and at less than 90 minutes is much too short to &#145;say' everything it should. Iris's descent into the hell of Alzheimer's is too swift, leaving the viewer in an awkward state, as we don't get to know the &#145;well' Iris before she turns into the shuffling forgetful mess. A sad film that, sadly, missed its mark, it's nonetheless quite good.   "},{"Title":"A beautiful, sad and moving film","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of those ultimate rarities a winner that I picked off the shelf at the local (Blockbuster) video store without so much as a summary beyond what was on the packaging. Dame Dench is stunning, as are her supporting actors. The interplay between the aging Murdoch and the youthful one is managed skillfully. It does, as it promises, end up being far more about love than about illness. One particular scene was brilliant the juxtaposition of Iris, with great pain, noticing that John has observed her failing memory and the young John's excrutiating peeking in on Iris in her merry, Erica-Jong-this-is-just-sex-nobody-gets-hurt escapade. Don't miss seeing this marvelous movie. I'd give it a 10, but even Bo Derek doesn't deserve that. "},{"Title":"A poem that just happens to involve a real life","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Roger Ebert didn't like this movie. Iris Murdoch the writer was too important to him for him to be able to appreciate the movie. I have never read Iris Murdoch and have knowledge of her at all because of the movie. As a result I was thoroughly pleased and able to see beyond the hopes and expectations of a biography and into the reality and the extreme beauty of this production. Judi Dench, what more can you say after perfect? Jim Broadbent I thought was a bit over the top, but then I researched the character a bit and think that he got him absolutely dead on. (Take a look at Murdoch and Bayley on the Iris Murdoch Society website if you have any doubts.)Winslet as the young Iris was such inspired casting that an Oscar should have been made for casting. One can see the older Iris in Winslet's performance (or is it Dench giving us the younger?)Some reviewers say that this movie has no plot. What a sad commentary on the state of art that a film must be so plot driven that there is no place for a tone poem that rings with the bittersweet peals of life, or the lonely plop of a pebble thrown in the water. Iris is a tone poem and a glance at a life lived more fully than most. "},{"Title":"A poem  that just happens to involve a real person","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Roger Ebert didn't like this movie. Iris Murdoch the writer was too important to him for him to be able to appreciate the movie. I have never read Iris Murdoch and have knowledge of her at all because of the movie. As a result I was thoroughly pleased and able to see beyond the hopes and expectations of a biography and into the reality and the extreme beauty of this production. Judi Dench, what more can you say after perfect? Jim Broadbent I thought was a bit over the top, but then I researched the character a bit and think that he got him absolutely dead on. (Take a look at Murdoch and Bayley on the Iris Murdoch Society website if you have any doubts.)Winslett as the young Iris was such inspired casting that an Oscar should have been made for casting. One can see the older Iris in Winslett's performance (or is it Dench giving us the younger?)Some reviewers say that this movie has no plot. What a sad commentary on the state of art that a film must be so plot driven that there is no place for a tone poem that rings with the bittersweet peals of life, or the lonely plop of a pebble thrown in the water. Iris is a tone poem and a glance at a life lived more fully than most. "}{"Title":"Paeon to or tract for humanism?","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed the movie, though I have to admit there seemed to be little in the way of an overarching theme or moral.  I suppose the interleaved portraits of Iris's heyday and declining period is supposed to be all we need to know; it was quite a bit of information, but somehow it just didn't quite seem like enough.  I feel the last bit with the stone falling might have been the best possible cinematic/poetic punctuation mark to a story about dealing with our infinite longings in a finite world.I do think the movie had its heart in the right place.  Execution seemed to fall just a tad short.  Or maybe it was just me.But I can recommend this movie.  Maybe the poetry will speak to your heart better than it did to mine. "},{"Title":"Not an Iris Murdoch biography","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seems that we're in front of a biopic, but this is more another mental disease film. Iris only focuses in two aspects of the writer's live the meeting with Bayley when she was young and above all  the decadence and alzheimer suffering when older. What about the other interesting aspects of Murdoch's life? And why they forget the other people who surrounded her and make them appear just plain in the film? I went out of the cinema having the feeling that I had enjoyed supreme performances, delicate direction from Eyre and a coherent construction of the story-line (that editing evoking the disorder of Iris when ancient), but without knowing that writer at all.  "},{"Title":"How to tell a story with images!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides the superb acting of Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent, Iris impressed me for the way Richard Eyre and Charles Wood told us the touching story (and drama) of Iris Murdoch (and John Bayley) basically with images. The editing (Martin Walsh) also contributed marvelously to the final result of the film. After watching it, I felt like I had just read a book telling that story. However, what I just watched was a remarkable screenplay with images competently taken by Richard Eyre and creatively edited by Martin Walsh.That is true cinema!  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't see this film if you want to see explosions, special effects, wizards, swordplay, heroic deeds, flag-waving soldiers blowing away terrorists or any of the spectacles so beloved by the post-pubescents who make up the majority of the cinema going masses these days.If you want to see excellent acting, though, this is well worth a couple of hours out of your life. IRIS is a sensitive study of the end of a long, and by and large successful and loving marriage between Iris Murdoch, the novelist, and her husband John Bayley.  After a long career as a novelist, Iris Murdoch dies the slow death that Alzheimer's disease brings, robbing its victim of life long before death appears.  We see Iris and John as young adults, he slightly puzzled by the self-assured, hedonistic young writer with whom he has fallen in love.  And after several affairs she chooses to marry him.   By contrast we see John as an old man, as puzzled and unsure of himself as before, now forced to take charge of and look after the wife whose mind is wasting away.   In spite of John's forced good cheer and optimism, we all know how the story will end.  As the doctor sad, when Iris's disease is diagnosed, `It will win.'It is not surprising that three out of the four principals were nominated for Oscars.  Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent play Iris and John.  Kate Winslett and Hugh Bonneville play the young Iris and John.    Bonneville is so perfect as a younger version of Broadbent that some people might think that it was the same actor with brilliant make-up.   A well-deserved Oscar to Broadbent for best male supporting actor.  But then everyone in this film was excellent.  Well-crafted performances as Iris inevitably fell into the abyss that is Alzheimer's, and we watch with compassion.   A touching, true-life story, in which the only villain is the disease.  "},{"Title":"A Moving Film","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never read any of Iris Murdoch's novels but now I intend to.  The film shows how Iris, once a beautiful young woman who lived for words and the power of the mind, it shows her painful decent into Altziemers.  A world of her own where the words she once cherished are no longer of use.  It may seem strange but the saddest part of the film is when she has to leave her husband to live in a care home, it seems strange but the moment, and you have to see it, for me encompasses the film.  The four actors, Dench, Broadbent, Winslet and Bonneville give perfect performances and it is just a shame that all but Bonneville are nominated for Oscar's.  A must see film for even those who do not know Iris Murdoch's work.  "},{"Title":"Life is a hard pill to swallow","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film lasts 90 minutes. You wouldn't want it to be any longer. That is not to say that it is not totally brilliant, it's merely that an audience cannot really take much more, because of its brilliant portrayal of life, which, when there are tragedies, we don't really want more than we need to bear. There can't be many movies whereby you are glad when it finishes, and yet immediately after, totally marvel at what has just been witnessed. It is not a 'weepie', however, as I overheard one fellow admirer mention upon leaving the cinema. It has a documentary feel, yet is very definitely a movie, with quite the best editing I think I've ever seen. As if the director knew full well it couldn't be a long-winded epic, every moment counts, and these 90 minutes are crammed full of a life of irony, a woman succumbing to a disease which leaves her, amongst other things, word-blind, when her whole life has been centred around writing. The four main actors are all flawless. If anything, Jim Broadbent's performance outshone the others, but all would be worthy award winners, in a fair world. Yet there is nothing 'showbizzy' about this tale. The audience was a fairly good one, however, and I feel that movies of this type are quite capable of having box-office success if they are given a fair chance of a widespread release. I doubt if that was the intention, however, but I'm telling you that this was a totally spellbound audience. Not one person moved from their seat during 90 minutes of some of the greatest cinema of all time. Yes, my beloved Kate Winslet takes her clothes off, but it's quite unmomentous when compared to the sensitive and delicate story. I'm not likely to visit the cinema again to see this, but one of the triumphs of British cinema. Hollywood would never be able to make a movie like this. Each to his own. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This may be the most beautiful and moving portrayal of love I've ever seen in a movie. All the actors are excellent and I can't imagine the film being more perfectly cast. It takes a special film to restore one's faith in love these days, but this is one of them. "},{"Title":"Excellent Cast! But not enough time!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dame Judi Dench is arguably one of the greatest mature actresses of our time period. She is playing another dame, Iris Murdoch. I would have loved if they focused the film somewhat on Iris' success. She won the Booker Prize for the Sea, the Sea. She was awarded Commander of the British Empire and a Dame in 1987, a year before Judi's honor. Judi Dench really pours her heart and soul in this role and it shows. Jim Broadbent who declined a Queen's honor in reality is brilliant in his role as the older John Bayley. Their relationship is quite enduring. They focus too much on Iris' early sexuality as a way to maybe attract attention of film goers to go and see this film. If they did withhold it, it would have been seen on Masterpiece Theatre. I read two of Iris' books, The Bell and The Sea, The Sea. They are both philosophical, intelligent products of fiction. John is absolutely right when he says that Iris lives for words and they are her life. The scenes with the older Iris and John are more important than the younger versions of themselves. I think there was a creative difference in depicting Iris as free-thinking, smoking, young lady rather than the mature, intelligent, private woman of her day. The film is a 10 because of Dench and Broadbent's performances. I liked seeing Penelope Wilton play the older Janet Stone, her longtime friend. One of the subjects that I wished they would explore would have been Iris and John's decision not to have any children. The film also withholds Iris' platonic relationship with Jean-Paul Sartre. Iris and John loved swimming and that was evident in this film. I would have liked to have seen their wedding ceremony. I am not much of a Kate Winslet fan so I never really cared to see her playing younger Iris as a silly, manipulative schoolgirl. I found her Iris to be too selfish. Dench's Iris was much more caring and loving toward John and Janet. Somebody wrote that we can learn a lot about relationships by being more like John and Iris. That is so true. They were really soul mates from the beginning of their relationship and in the end too. John and Iris worked because they allowed the other live and do with absolute trust. Most people are unaware that they lived in squalid conditions in Oxford and that they did not have a television until Iris' illness. They listened to the Archers' radio program on BBC. They lived quietly. Iris donated much of her income from books to charities. When this film came out, I learned about Dame Iris Murdoch and read about her. I am still fascinated by her even watching Judi play as she declined away. Iris said about losing your mind when you live in your mind. If we all lived in our minds, it would be a much happier world. Rest in peace, Dame Iris Murdoch, you are not forgotten. If this film does anything, it is promote interests in your novels and open our minds. "},{"Title":"A VERY Bittersweet Love Story","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris Murdoch - author and educator and, ultimately, Alzheimer's victim. This is her story, well put together and well told and interesting (if somewhat depressing) all the way through.The movie pulls no punches about Alzheimer's and the horrible affects it has on both patients and caregivers. Judi Dench plays the afflicted Iris, gradually losing her ability to write, to think, to take care of herself, to recognize those around her. A good performance, but even better was that of Jim Broadbent as Iris' husband John, elderly himself and struggling against the odds to be the caregiver. He offers a realistic look at the struggle involved. He loves Iris, wants to take care of her, but also has to deal with the frustration he feels at her growing limitations, which every now and then explode into anger. He's also haunted by her past, which is complicated to say the least. She had had many lovers (including possibly some female, which is hinted at but never confirmed), while he has known only her, and his jealousy comes out on occasion. For example, as she is lying in bed, in her own Alzheimer's induced world, he screams at her, Who are you with now!To give some historical context to the relationship the story is divided between the elderly John and Iris, and flashbacks of their younger versions (played by Hugh Bonneville and Kate Winslett.) All four actors playing these roles did a fine job.  I don't think I've seen Winslett since her excellent performance in Titanic; she is hardly recognizable here - looking much older and more mature than that famous role of a few years ago, even though she's playing the young Iris.Be prepared as you watch this. This could be a very unpleasant movie. It's not happy or uplifting especially, and Iris is at best an anti-hero, whose sense of education apparently doesn't include much thought of commitment and fidelity in relationships. But it's a good movie, and your attention will never wander once you start off with it.9/10 "},{"Title":"A dud.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was interested in seeing a movie about Iris Murdoch.  When I left  the theatre I knew nothing about this writer.  I did know a whole lot about her husband... but, really, who cares?  The incessant flashing forward and back was incredibly annoying.  Was the filmmaker trying to mask the fact that there was no real storyline to this movie?  This film is so incredibly disappointing. "}{"Title":"Good, sad movie","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Iris is about a female writer, who lives in England and gets to suffer from Alzheimer's disease in her old age. In her youth she's about to write a big novel and is a Master Degree Candidate. Iris meets a man, John, to a party. John's highly educated as well &#x96; he's a professor. Iris and John get fond of each other and spend a lot of time together, but they're not really lovers. They like to swim a lot and during the movie we see the ocean repeating times. Iris is a very independent and eccentric woman &#x96; she has several friends, whom she gets to bed with. This sets John up, because he likes her a lot. He confronts her and after some time they get married. In her old age Iris gets interviewed in a TV-show, where the first symptoms of dementia are showing. She forgets what to say and from now on her illness only gets worser &#x96; Iris repeats herself and leaves home, where she can't find the way back. John is very protecting, understanding and supporting upon Iris. He still loves her as much as before her disease. In the end Iris moves into a nursing home. Here she feels happiness.In my opinion it's a good, but sad movie because we see how one person changes as a cause of dementia. We also see how John struggles just to make it through the day with the woman, he loves, who now is ill. There's also more focus on and talking about dementia now than before. We simply know more about this terrible disease.The water in the movie symbolizes rebirth and peace. It's in our mothers wombs we are surrounded by water and there's peacefully. Just like this, Iris gets peace in the end of her life, where she dies happily. "},{"Title":"Iris","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Iris, is about the author an philosifer by same name who lived from 15th of July until the 8th of February 1999. Iris is a very eccentric and independent woman, who meets a man named John. John is also a writer, and is as highly educated, as Iris is it. They share the same passion of writing and reading. They are eachothers opposites. John is very naive, shy and he studders. The way Iris knows her way with male friends, is having sex with them. John is not that experinced in life, and he thinks they are a couple. John sees Iris with another man in her apartment, and confronts her about it, and then she tells him, that he is the only one who knows her better than anyone else, and declares her love to him. They are getting married, but are not having any children. When Iris is about to write her new book, she forgets how to spell simple words. At an interview in a studio, Iris forgets how to explain properly about education. She is wondering about, what is happening, and John tries to calm her down. Iris is suffering from Alzheimers disease, and the disease is taken control of Iris, and then she is the one to be dependent on her husband. One day she leaves home, John tries to look for her every where he thinks she might be. An old friend comes to the house with Iris, and when John opens the door, he can not remember the person, who comes back with Iris. After this situation, and Iris' condition is getting worse, John realize that having Iris at home is very hard for him, and he wants her at a nursing home, where they are professionals in Alzheimer's disease, and they have the knowledge needed , so they can take good care of Iris in a proper way. Shortly after arriving at the nursing home, Iris dies with John by her side. A very good film, that describes the Alzheimer's disease in a very good way, and also how you can react to the disease as a relative, when you still have hope for your loved ones. "},{"Title":"Declining Years","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, as of my submission there will be 136 reviews of this movie. Which just goes to show that in our time of semi-education, where millions have gone to college to little effect except to have the concept of celebrity imposed on supposed intellectuals; it is preferable to the masses to watch a movie about Iris Murdoch rather than read or--what is more likely--dabble in her while sipping lattes at the Barnes and Noble. That is to say, I understand why this depressing and incoherent movie has gotten so much attention! But I couldn't finish it! (And I like Judi Dench.) John Bayley was portrayed as a male bimbo--a scholarly and compliant cuckold, so silly in his puppy dog willingness to accept her infidelities, that one wonders how he could have become a don. (Were they all so weak and ineffectual at that time?) What Iron-maiden Murdoch saw in him is beyond me; yet, on second thought, he is probably the sort of, what we would call, metro-sexual figure that might fit in quite well with her self-consciously styled alpha-female personality. Somewhat pedestrian for the learned and profound Iris, if you ask me.In that vein I think that all of Iris' years were years of decline. She just had to be sexually promiscuous and something of an exhibitionist. Ditto the communism. And the Sartre too! And her assaults on bourgeois traditions and morality. All the trendy intellectual thumb twiddling of the post-war era. In any period, I just do not like people of her genre. if she had been born 25 years earlier she would have been a Vita Sackville-West or, worse, a Virginia Woolf. The traction these writers have retained is almost wholly due to modern feminism. Ditto Murdoch. That the reader may gauge my reference point, I find Dorothy Sayers to be incomparably better as well as more friendly and reassuring. Sayers learned from her mistakes and was comfortable with her sex. Murdoch was a woman who was not happy with her lot--being a woman, that is.So to endure to the end a movie whose end was an ending from the very beginning and to focus on the dregs of the end of the end as does this movie; the bitter, slobbering attempts of a miserable creature--unaware of herself in so many ways and unable to retain enough memory to put together the lessons she should have learned--to hold together her human identity; all the while clawing and resisting the booby of a man who shared her bed for over 40 year--well, I could see the finale. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful film is Iris","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is a beautiful film from 2001. It is currently available on NetFlix Instant Download Streaming. The director is Richard Eyre. The writers are John Bayley and Richard Eyre. Actors include Kate Winslet, Hugh Bonneville, Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent. This film succeeds where the overrated A Beautiful Mind fell short. It puts its subject's life into perspective and gives a sense of her worldview and, needs, and desires--as opposed to just focusing on the illness. I think it is also more effective in its use of different actors to portray the main characters at different ages, rather than using distracting age makeup, like in ABM. I came away from this with a profound admiration for Iris Murdock, whereas I felt like I hardly got to know John Nash at all. But enough with the comparisons. This film stands well on its own as a tribute to the companionship shared by Iris and her husband John Bayley throughout their long, complex, relationship. Broadbent deserved that Academy Award, although I would say he plays more of a lead character than supporting. Seeing Iris through Bayley's loving eyes is what makes the film an enriching experience. He is the one who must adapt to her unconventional lifestyle, and their journey together is a rewarding one. I gave the film 8 stars. Dale Haufrect "},{"Title":"four terrific performances","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is a biography of writers Iris Murdoch (Kate Winslet, Judi Dench) and John Bayley (Hugh Bonneville, Jim Broadbent). They meet at Oxford. She's the more flamboyant and he's awkward. Over the years, she continues to be the more vibrant one in the marriage and a famous novelist. Then she starts the suffer from Alzheimer's disease.The acting is superb from all four primary actors. Winslet is winsome and Bonneville is awkwardly compelling. Dench's deterioration and Broadbent's suffering are outstanding. It does have essence of true romance. The courtship is heart warming and the struggles are heart breaking. That is what's most compelling. The only drawback is possibly the split timeline may pull some of the focus from each other. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" it is this kind of film out of words. not reviews, not descriptions, not the sound of critics voice are inspired option to present it. only watch it and you understands that. because it is a book adaptation, portrait of an extraordinary writer but, more that, it is amazing show. its basic virtue - performance. the characters becomes skin of actors. the film becomes, step by step, pure delight. result - a gem. a pure gem in which Dame Judi Dench does a brilliant work and Kate Winslet shines. in fact, it is a form of dialog between the two actresses. subtle, precise, astonishing. the lead character is only axis. and this extraordinary dialog represents large circle grace of splendid support of Hugh Bonneville and unique Jim Broadbent. it is a huge map of nuances who seems become exercise of metempsychosis. so, please, watch it ! sad, full of joy, hope and brilliance, it is little more than a film. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very well-acted little British drama. I don't think it's anything all that remarkable, and it's just solid. But the four leads do put in some great work, especially Judi Dench and Kate Winslet. What's surprising is the fact that Dench was nominated under Leading while her co-star Broadbent supporting. Seems like they knew the younger Bonneville would have no chance so they just put broadbent in supporting, but knew Winslet had chances of getting a nod. Either way, deserved and if anything it just strengthens Kate Winslet's filmography more. She's one of the finest actresses working right now, if not my favorite overall. Very consistent. "},{"Title":".What is notable by its absence","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris, directed by Richard Eyre, written by Eyre and Charles Wood, based on John Bayley's Iris A Memoir and Elegy for Iris By David Walsh 5 April 2002Iris is a dull and uninspired film focusing on the mental deterioration of British novelist Iris Murdoch, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease, the neurodegenerative condition, from 1995 until her death four years later. The film is based on two memoirs by her husband of more than forty years, Oxford University professor and critic, John Bayley&#x97; Iris A Memoir and Elegy for Iris. It unfolds in two inter-cut sections, covering the period during which Murdoch and Bayley first met, in the mid-1950s, and the years of her decline and death.Unhappily, upon the conclusion of the film the spectator knows next to nothing about the essential facts of Murdoch's life, about her writing, about her ideas, about the character of her relationship with Bayley, nor about British society and artistic life during the years in question. One grasps merely that Bayley was made miserable by his wife's plight, which is very understandable, and that Alzheimer's is a terrible condition.In other words, this is for the most part a systematic and mediocre withholding of information. The performers&#x97;Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent, Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville (as the older and younger couples, respectively)&#x97;are fine, more or less, but the film, directed by Richard Eyre, artistic director of Britain's National Theatre from 1988 to 1997, is frustrating and largely pointless.http//www.wsws.org/articles/2002/apr2002/iris-a05.shtml "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and heartbreaking","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris is a film which straddles a fine line, warming your heart but also breaking your heart. It's an undeniably heartfelt, touching story. But it's a story which you know from the beginning can only end in tears. All involved in the making of this film are to be commended for managing to bring this rather difficult story to life. The writers, the director, and the fine cast of actors have done excellent and, most certainly, very challenging work here. There may be some small quibbles with the film but all in all one has to say it's a job well done.Iris tells the story of one fascinating woman, renowned British novelist Iris Murdoch, and her sad descent as the ravages of Alzheimer's take their toll. Much of this movie's appeal is that before the disease has its impact we get to know who this woman was, what drove her. We see her brilliance, we see her vivaciousness, we see her lust for life. This makes her sad fate all the more heartbreaking. Two actresses bring the character of Iris to life and each is spot-on brilliant. When we meet Iris, she is played by Judi Dench. Throughout the film there are flashbacks where we see the young Iris, and here Kate Winslet takes up the role. Dench probably has the more challenging part. In the film's beginning she is playing a rather clearly brilliant woman but when the dreaded disease begins to strike Dench is left to portray a completely helpless woman who has lost all sense of who she is. A tough transition for any performer but Dench is up to the task. The contrast with the Iris we see four decades earlier in Winslet's scenes could not be any more stark. It is in these scenes that we really see who Iris Murdoch was. Winslet throws her whole body and soul into her performance, presenting an incredibly energetic, free-spirited and undeniably strong woman. Getting to know Iris in this way is so important if we are to really appreciate the sadness that comes when this woman's mind and spirit begins to fade away.Dench and Winslet are certainly the key figures here but one must also note the very good, very important, work done by Jim Broadbent and Hugh Bonneville who play Iris' husband John Bayley. Bonneville plays a younger, somewhat befuddled Bayley who engages in a somewhat awkward courtship with Iris. Broadbent plays the older Bayley, who must take up the burden of caring for the woman he loves as she slowly fades away. Broadbent does a wonderful job of portraying the loving patience required in this situation. And when the moments of inevitable frustration come Broadbent is up to the challenge there as well. Really, there is not a false step from any of the four principals in the cast. The way the story is told, cutting back and forth in time, is a big plus. Whenever the story seems to be overwhelmed with sadness at the older Iris' fate there is a jump back to those long-ago happier days where Iris was so full of life. If there is any failing in the film it's that you may be left wishing you got to know Iris just a little better. The film at times seems a little rushed. We certainly get an idea of who this person was but you do get the sense there was so much more there. The film seems so focused on the central relationship between Iris and Bayley that other aspects of the woman's life seem to have been pushed aside. You may wish you got to see more, but what is presented here is a very compelling story, brilliantly brought to life by some truly wonderful performers. It's a very well done, and very touching, film. "},{"Title":"Take the words from her mouth.","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kudos to director Richard Eyre of this 2001 bio-drama about Iris Murdoch, Irish-born novelist,philosopher and lover of the written word. This film is a passionate look at the melodramatic relationship between the free-spirited and sexual libertine Murdoch(Judi Dench)and the scholarly and timid, virtual virgin John Bayley(Jim Broadstreet). Both acclaimed and well respected for their own accomplishments. Iris known for her novels that were usually sexual and ethical. Bayley, the Oxford scholar, sexually frustrated worshiper of Iris. The story line begins with the couple's meeting and attraction; Kate Winslet playing the young Murdoch and Hugh Bonneville as Bayley. Early on, Iris is the dominate of the soul mates as Bayley lives in the shadow of his famous wife. Later in life it is Bayley that becomes the doting and devoted caretaker of the Alzheimer's ravaged Iris. Dementia robbing from her those words that made her world. Dench and Winslet are superb. "}{"Title":"Hollow film, fine acting","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris Murdoch certainly did, as this film shows, suffer from Alzheimer's disease at the end of her life. For all I know, she may have been, when a student at Oxford, the sexy good-time girl portrayed here by Kate Winslet. It is not, however, for either of these things that she is remembered, but rather for what she did during the intervening period when she became one of Britain's leading novelists as well as a philosopher of some distinction.The life of a novelist presents a problem for film makers, greater than the problems of filming the lives of other creative artists. The camera can show us an artist's paintings; we can hear a composer's music on the soundtrack; poems can be read aloud. There is no way in which the essence of a novel can be portrayed on screen in the same way; we just have to take it on trust that so-and-so really is a great writer. This doubtless explains why filmed biographies of writers are uncommon compared with those of painters or musicians; if the Bronte sisters have been something of an exception, that has more to do with the tragedy of their early deaths than with anything they wrote.The director and scriptwriter of this film attempt to solve this problem by avoiding it altogether. The film concentrates entirely on the period in the nineties leading up to Iris's death, intercut with scenes from her student days in the fifties, when she first met her husband John Bayley. The sixties, seventies and eighties are not shown at all, although it was during this period that she wrote most of the works on which her fame now rests. As a result, the film seems hollow and unbalanced. We get little sense that we are not just watching an old lady slowly going senile but witnessing the decay of a once-powerful intellect.Despite this, the film still manages to have some emotional impact, largely due to the fine acting of Jim Broadbent as Iris's caring husband and, even more so, to the performance of the hugely talented Dame Judi Dench as Iris herself. I was less happy with the actors who portrayed the couple in their younger days. I have difficulty in believing that Iris Murdoch was ever as glamorous as Kate Winslet's character, and the casting of Hugh Bonneville as the young John Bayley was a mistake. He is at least ten years Miss Winslet's senior, and looks even older, so one is left with the curious impression that Iris was much younger than her husband at the time of their marriage, but around the same age at the time of her death.6/10, largely due to two fine performances.  "},{"Title":"A worthwhile flick with two great ladies","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A really touching film, Iris opened up a whole new life to me of someone that I had personally never heard of.  Judi Dench and Kate Winslet are really awesome - two British ladies who not only have class by talent by the truckload.  As for the director, what a great first time out feature film debut (he's only listed with TV films to his credit up until this one). Also really opened my eyes to Alzheimer's, having never had any family members or anyone else I know afflicted by it.  If you're in to more indie/euro films, this is really worth the watch.  Classic English film making. "},{"Title":"Broadbent is the man!!!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Starring Judi Dench, Kate Winslet, Jim Broadbent, and Hugh Bonneville in the story about author Iris Murdoch and her marriage to author John Bayley and their struggle as Murdoch suffers through Alzheimer's disease. Wonderful performances make `Iris' one of 2001s finest films, especially from Broadbent (`Moulin Rouge'), who won for Best Actor for his heart wrenching portrayal as Bayley living with his ailing wife. *** "},{"Title":"Great Expectations","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Paying no attention to the ratings for the film Iris and knowing little about the writer Iris, I rented the DVD.  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**  I expected a decent storyline about a talented writer; I was quite disappointed.  I am not a fan of nudity in films, especially the backsides of people jumping into a pond or the front of some woman swimming and swimming and swimming.  I failed to glimpse a great love story.  I thought it was never developed, and I cannot recall whether John and Iris referred to each other as husband/wife.  Instead of loving Iris, John always seemed in awe of her.  Instead of being a great writer, Iris seemed to be a walking, talking platitude.  The scene that featured young Iris kissing upward young John's arm was yucky.  Judy Dench was excellent in this role.  Her slipping away, ever so slowly, was realistic  the look on her face, her blank eyes, her messy hair, her walk, and those long, wet sleeves of her sweater while she wandered lost in the rain.  The flashbacks were all right although the attempts at being clever were silly.  I liked the young and the old characters played by different actors.  Maurice was especially effective; the viewer will recognize him (when he finds Iris) as soon as John opens the door.  The using father and son was the way to go.  I never liked the same actor in aging roles; neither age looks genuine.  I was bothered by that cluttered house.  I know this is a film, but couldn't John hire someone to clean the dangerous place -- books and papers and dishes all over?  They had some money saved, didn't they?  Did they have to have John stutter, even on closed caption, too?  It looked too phony.  Both John Bayleys and both Iris Murdochs were well cast; that's a definite plus for this film.  See it if you're a Judy Dench fan; she really deserved awards for her portrayal of Iris. "},{"Title":"Won't Exactly Lift Your Spirits","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brutal. An acting clinic, but the story is really rough. Reminds me of that movie with DeNiro and Robin Williams, where DeNiro's mind slips away&#133;oh yeah, Awakenings. Except this film has no similar silver linings in it. While it is awfully depressing, it is also thought provoking. You will find yourself doing some heavy self-examination, especially if you spend the bulk of your time watching movies and then spitting out trite commentaries that you hope someone out there might find useful and amusing. Ahem.  As much as I rip on the fact, the truth is I'm so bloody used to a  `Hollywood' ending, that when faced with its stark absence, it leaves me with a very hollow and disagreeable sensation.  I end up thinking, life is dreary enough. Why did I just put myself through this? There certainly was an opportunity to make this a celebration of an extraordinary woman's life. It was...but it also wasn't. It dwelled too much on the foibles, and mistakes, and resentments that one accumulates over time. The flashbacks just made it all so terribly depressing. I'm spoiled in that Alzheimer's hasn't really touched my life, and I've no wish to seem insensitive. I realize many many people will find succor in a well-made film that empathizes with the ravages of the illness. So I'll leave it at that then.  "},{"Title":"Sad and depressing, but poignant","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sad and depressing, but it does score a certain number of poignancy points. Possible Spoilers Ahead!!  --  I didn't realize that the film was basically about Dame Iris's descent into Alzheimer's well, so I wasn't expecting it to be so sad and depressing. Of course if I'd known what it was about, I would have expected that, since sad and depressing is pretty much it for anyone with that disease. I have never read any of Iris Murdoch's books, so it didn't affect me viscerally. Kate Winslet is so winsome and talented, and it showed here. She is fantastic in everything I've seen her in. Judi Densch was masterful in portraying the progression of the dementia. I found the rapid cuts between the older and younger characters to be quite effective in drawing out the emotion, while it may be a bit lacking in moving the narrative. Overall while this film has stellar acting performances, the subject matter makes it less pleasant to watch. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Flawless Performances!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! That is little I can say about the wonderful performances from the four lead actors and actresses. I now see why Jim Broadbent won an Oscar for his performance. I am surprised though that Judi Dench did not win because her acting showed through the most. It had to have been so difficult to play a character like Iris Murdoch with so much depth that you felt with her falling apart that you were also collasing. Kate Winslet's work on the film was very good as well. It is impressive to see the great films that she is doing after her stardom in Titanic. It is good to know that some actors/actresses have some sense to go with the movies with real characters and feelings instead of always doing the flat blockbusters. An actor I hadn't heard of before, Hugh Bonneville also showed through in this masterful movie. I would be interested to see more of his work as well. He gave a strong picture of the innocence of the young John Bayley...and then Jim Broadbent topped it all of with his fantastic work in the film. From doing Moulin Rouge to this, he has gotten a very good looking resume. Truly flawless performances all around. "},{"Title":"You owe it to yourselves to Go and see this movie!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris is the biographical story of the English novelist and philosopher Iris Murdoch. The movie is a personal story of Iris in her youth and maturity portrayed here in two time frames; she as a young woman just getting her very first novel published, and as a mature woman finishing her last novel.The main plot happens in the present with Iris in her sixties just finishing her last book. As she is doing the final touches to her last novel and still speaking publicly about her philosophies and giving out interviews, we see her mind and memory starting to deteriorate.With the aid of flashbacks to the young Iris the audience gets familiarized with Iris as a strong willed and passionate thinker. But as the story progresses, we see her getting diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and witness her mind and dignity gradually deteorate with the grueling effects of the disease.This is not an easy movie to watch as it is not only a sad story but also brilliantly told. You will find yourself reaching for a tissue more than once during the movie, and even worse, it will get you're heart aching like no other movie has before it.Don't get me wrong though, this is definitely not a movie to miss. It is a breath-taking story about an amazing woman and her husband, living their lives together, until finally separated by Alzheimers disease.Added to all this technical success of the film is only complimented by the sheer brilliance of the performances of the two lead actresses; Kate Winslet as the young Iris, Dame Judy Dench as IrisTo my opinion the film deserves at least four and a half stars with the only minor negative point being the extent of the heaviness the movie loads on you. With the experience of going and seeing this movie, you must include having coffee with your friends as the film also works as a spark for many intriguing conversations. "},{"Title":"The point of the film is what IRIS was repeatedly saying, It's about LOVE","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw the trailer, I thought, my, what a fantastic makeup job they did to Jim Broadbent, he looked so young there with Kate Winslet sliding-tumbling down the stairs in her flaming red dress. I didn't realize it's an actor named Hugh Bonneville who portrayed the young John Bayley! This is definitely an integral ensemble cast of four - equally superb performances from Winslet and Bonneville, (Judi) Dench and Broadbent - together they gave us one heck of a film! Yes, one might say there's really not much about Iris Murdoch's life per se in director Richard Eyre's 2001 film IRIS, as the focus seems to revolve around the Alzheimer condition she suffered in her latter years. But behind the agony of Iris' debilitating disease as they were growing old, contrasting with the ecstasy of liveliness when they were younger, Eyre used intertwining-overlapping memory flashbacks to illustrate  LOVE is the everlasting theme that we hear Murdoch repeatedly emphasized. This film, based on John Bayley's memoirs of his lifelong love and companion Iris, certainly did justice in depicting the loving, caring - no matter how frustrating or perplexing - he unconditionally gave his all to her.A beautiful mind, yes, she has, he has. A different aspect of what happened to another case of a genius in deprecating situations. Russell Crowe was John Nash, Jr. and here we have Winslet and Dench together portraying  Murdoch. IRIS the film is not exactly focusing on giving an in-depth look of her life - I felt it's truly about how one - two persons, can love each other so dearly and appreciate each other so well. And from John Bayley's view, we see LOVE personified, indeed. To learn more about Iris Murdoch, her life, her works, one can always pursue printed pieces or peruse online access (just entering Iris Murdoch on Yahoo search, I got more than a dozen results in return.)Eyre's film IRIS is a down to earth manifestation of a marriage vow, going through in sickness and in health, John and Iris, they did - with the timelessness of an enduring love they shared together, in all its joyful hues and grim shadows, and love never left them.   "},{"Title":"A beautiful love story","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautiful and touching film about love and loss.  Based on the writings of John Bayley about his life with writer Iris Murdoch, focusing on her declining years her mind is destroyed by Alzheimer's, the story of how they met and fell in love is told through flashbacks.  John's devotion to her, even when she ceased to realize it, is as heartwarming as it is heartbreaking. Even with the sadness of the inevitable end, it is still one of the years best love stories. "}{"Title":"Excellent acting doesn't always make a good film","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My father enjoyed it, my wife fell asleep. I found it was long and tedious. Indeed the acting was brilliant, touching, impessive and English was properly spoken. It was much better than 99% of Yank films, no doubt about it. However, it creaked, took too long and evoced bathos rather than pathos. "},{"Title":"Now this is a beautiful mind!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Life is experienced chronologically, and understood ...categorically? The flashbacks and -forwards give the viewer an easy way to link Iris' late life struggles to her youthful explorations.This intelligent, dark yet touching story of Iris Murdoch gives you a glimpse of a beautiful mind and wonderful life of the author-philosopher. Unless you are familiar with her writings, you will be drawn to further study to fill in the blanks.Judy Dench takes you down the silent and scary path towards Alzheimers dementia in a studied and deliberate manner. She seems to play it by the numbers once she loses senescence. Kate Winslett playing Iris the younger is both light-hearted and thoughtful, deserving a leading actress category along side Dame Dench. And Jim Broadbench playing the elder husband John Bayley deserved the Oscar for merely keeping up with her.Though more of a downer, Iris alternately will amuse, inspire and wrench your heart. "},{"Title":"Good acting, poor screenplay","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's get one thing straight this is *not* a biopic of Iris Murdoch. Instead it's a glib and half-hearted attempt to demonstrate the patent untruth of the saying Age shall not wither her (if writing blatant lies were an Olympic event, whoever penned that little aphorism would be right up there with the medal-winners).Simply juxtaposing shots of Young Iris and Old Iris engaged in similar activities, cutting between the two at an almost subliminal rate, is rather too cinematically clichéd for words. Worse, we never see the painful details of coping with the slow and inevitable decline into Alzheimer's; one moment she's scribbling away, the next she's practically dried up completely. Where's the drama in that? It's almost as if the director said Right, we've got Dench, we've got Broadbent, we've got Winslet, who needs a script, let's just let them *act!* Well I'm sorry, but if you're going to take the Mike Leigh approach, you've probably got to *be* Mike Leigh.Still, although the film may be sorely lacking in guts, the actors put up fairly worthy performances. Hugh Bonneville's eager puppy of a Young John Bayley deserves special mention, holding its own with the three Big Names that everyone has focussed on.Nice idea, good acting, shame it pulls its punches. 6/10.P.S. Am I the only one who always wants to pronounce biopic to rhyme with myopic?  "},{"Title":"3 stars","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris Murdoch, based on what is said in this film, was perhaps the finest novelist of her generation. This film shows her as she is just starting her writing career, where she is played by Kate Winslet, and also when she is ending her career due to the swift onset of Alzheimer's, where she is played by Judi Dench. In the early years, Iris is a wildly energetic free spirit, sleeping with anyone and doing anything she chooses to. During this time she meets her future husband and fellow Oxford professor John Bayley (played by Hugh Bonneville in the early years and Jim Broadbent later), who is both incredibly awkward and incredibly smitten. The later period of the film starts just before the first signs of the disease begin to appear, and shows the effect of it both on her and on her husband. John's devotion to Iris in the early period of the film is critical in understanding and believing his devotion in the later period, when small good moments shine through the overwhelming difficulties.Besides the basic story, the presentation is of both periods of Iris's life almost simultaneously, cut together everywhere. I noticed one particular cut where someone is going through a door, and as is normal practice the cut was between the person starting to open the door on one side to them coming through the door from the other, but in this case the place, person, and time were all different -- cool.The performances were all very good, with three of the primary characters up for Oscar consideration. I wasn't as blown away by Dench's performance as I expected to be, but with her expectations tend to be pretty high.Lastly, I'll have to mildly agree with Roger Ebert that the story left me wanting to see something of the middle part of Iris's life, when she was at the height of her career. "},{"Title":"Beautifully done","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by no means the cheeriest movie ever made, but it's an honest and powerfully affecting portrait of writer Murdoch's disappearance beneath the weight of Alzheimer's. Judi Dench, as always, brings everything to the role--a naked, wrenching performance. The entire cast is splendid; the script tight and unsentimental, the editing crisp and clean. There is great subtlety and humor, too. This is an eminently worthwhile and important film. "},{"Title":"Yes to Judi Dench, no to Kate Winslet","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Glenda Jackson once made a film called Stevie, about the poet Stevie Smith--she wrote the much-anthologized poem Not Waving But Drowning. Jackson's performance stood for many years as my ideal of what a filmed representation of a writer's life should be. Now we have Judi Dench's wonderful rendering of the elderly Iris Murdoch, and it is one of the finest things she has done. I liked the way Dame Judi gave us the strength as well as the frailty and fear of a writer losing her mind.Kate Winslet just can't rise to the challenge of the young Iris, a character too Protean for her. The intense intellectual searching, the bisexuality, it all gets glossed over by Winslet. She seemed to be doing a reprise of Sue Bridehead, the ultimate bluestocking, in Jude. Jim Broadbent did a wonderful job as the older Bayley; he is every bit the equal of Judi Dench. Finally, I'd like to recommend that people read a Murdoch novel, The Sea, The Sea would be a good pick. It's amazing that A Severed Head is still the ONLY book that has been filmed. "},{"Title":"Poor Iris..Terrific Dame Judi","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Judi Dench's extraordinary Indian summer continues with a heartbreaking performance as the late novelist Iris Murdoch. Her portrayal of a great mind succumbing to the ravages of Alzheimer's is unbearably moving, but it's let down a little by a lack of dramatic momentum and Richard Eyre's unambitious direction.Bouncing back and forth between Murdoch's early days at Oxford and her deterioration four decades later, Iris tells of its heroine's enduring love for John Bayley, a fellow academic who wrote the memoirs upon which the script was based.Played by Kate Winslet, the younger Iris is a vivacious intellectual with penchants for nude swimming and casual sex. What she sees in the bookish, stammering Bayley (Bonneville) is a mystery, but that doesn't stop her taking him into her bed, and into her heart.The situation is reversed in the present day, with the now-elderly Bayley (Broadbent) forced to become a virtual parent to his addled wife. Unfortunately, because we are asked to take Murdoch's genius on trust, the impact of her tragedy is reduced. Indeed, the ping-pong structure of the narrative unwittingly implies her condition might even be some karmic retribution for her adolescent promiscuity.Dench and Winslet inhabit the role of Iris with such intensity it's hard to take your eyes off them. But it would be an injustice not to recognise the contributions of Broadbent and Bonneville. In addition to their astonishing physical resemblance, they ensure the bumbling Bayley is no mere caricature of selfless devotion. "},{"Title":"Nice film, but Iris Murdoch deserves better","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a pity that the film was based only in John Bayley's books and not on a Iris Murdoch good biography - from Peter Conradi, for instance. There were many beautiful things to tell about her, that were left outside. Like this, it is a sad film, with the disease always present on the screen. I enjoyed the interpretations of Kate Winslet and Judy Dench and the quotes on the film from Murdoch books. However, there is some miscasting Winslet looks younger than Bonneville, when Iris Murdoch (b. 1919) was older than John Bayley (b. 1925).It is a film that can be seen, but Iris Murdoch would deserve a much better one.  "},{"Title":"A strange mix.","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw that this film received three Oscar nominations for acting I was curious.  Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent and Kate Winslet are all excellent but none of them deserves to win.  What I was most curious about was two things.  First off, the idea that it would get three nominations for acting and no other nominations.  I started having suspicious about its quality when I saw that it was only 90 minutes and then Roger Ebert only gave it two stars out of four.  Well, after seeing it for myself, all my suspicions were confirmed.  Okay, you have a world class author like Iris Murdoch who was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and her mind slowly decayed.  But what about the rest of Iris Murdoch.  A film like this warrants at least two to perhaps even two and a half or three hours to tell the complete story.  The dramatic structure of her illness is not impacted well enough unless we see all she accomplished earlier in her life and what we learn about her in depth along the way.  Along with 'Ali', 2001 will be remembered for two shallow biographies that could have been much better and were not much of a tribute to the people on whom the films were based. "},{"Title":"An unusual film","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barely after lunch may be an unusual time to go to a movie, but the midweek showing at the theater had thirty or so adults in it when the lights when down (interestingly, the sound did not come up until several patrons nudged the staff!), and when we turned our attention to the screen.After the credits rolled and the theater emptied there were most of the audience still hanging around the theater, unwilling to leave until they had talked IRIS over with others-- comparing notes, so to speak.The older, wiser, better educated members of the audience were the most affected, the younger, less educated, more self centered ones tending to view it in a superficial manner at best.  Some staff members admitted that they were seeing it in bits and pieces because they felt it was a bit too intense, a bit too much for one sitting.I recommend it-- if you are mature and intelligent.  If you are shallow and self centered, avoid this film. "}{"Title":"Great casting","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was most taken by the casting allowing the older Bayley and Younger Bayley to seem to be just an ageing person. The actors certainly were able to come across as the same person. A very thought provoking film especially for someone in the later stages of their life as I am. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I expected to be fully engaged with the film being an admirer of both Bayley and Murdoch. Alas, it was not to be. Maybe one day Iris will be honoured more fully in a film about her life, or even by one of her incredible books being filmed.This film focused so much on the awful disease of Alzheimers that overtook her and her husband's infinite care and patience with the effects of this on her. John Bayley is an admirable human being for not giving up but staying as a loving mother hen with a truly handicapped and helpless chick.But this is not the Iris I went to see. Winslet was wonderful as the younger Iris, captivating both men and women with her wit and beauty. I needed to see more of that and hear more of her words.It is not clear in this movie as to what she saw in Bayley. He has a hangdog look, very meek and accommodating and there is a particular scene on bicyles repeated over and over where he is yelling for her to slow down as he wants to catch up. I found it insulting to the intelligence, so she finally did slow down and he did catch up, duh. I assume that was the point.Her true brilliance is not shown here. Judi reflects the dimmer Iris beautifully. She is a master at multi-layered performances. She must get an Oscar for one of her roles this year.I gave it a 6 out of 10.Jim Broadbent is excellent also, depicting Bayley in an almost eerie reincarnation, limp hands, high waist and hunched. If the film had been called Bayley I think it would have been truer to the movie. "},{"Title":"Worthy, moving but painful","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris was a not a pleasant experience, but it was very beleieveable and moving one. The acting on the whole was good, with Hugh Bonneville taking the honours as the young John Bayley. His portrayl of the eccentric, shy and sensitive young academic is wonderful. Surprisingly Judi Denchs performance as Iris I found a little wooden and not wholly convincing. Broadbents older Bayley altough mostly good was a little hammy on occasion.  A film that  outstayed its welcome somewhat, but nevertheless is one of the better films of the year.  If you insist on seeing a film about illness I would recommend this over the smoltzy A Beautiful Mind. "},{"Title":"Could have been worse","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Painful to watch, and seeming somewhat inauthentic, the relationship begtween Iris and her suitor and then husband seems disproportionate, she's somewhat of a worldly gadabout, he a lovesick masochistic whom she graces with an occasional kind word.  He later becomes a candidate for cannonization for sticking with and caring for her after she is stricken with Alzeimer's disease.A true story told by the widowered husband who later wrote two profitable books, one wonders how accurate his telling is. The movie does a particularly poor job of giving you a sense of what the world of her works were about (and thereby a clue to what she was about).The acting was impressive, however, and the film was rescued by this and by not resorting to maudelin or melodramatic tricks. It was much more upbeat than I was expecting.  I don't regret having seen it, our party of 4 were evenly split between those who liked it a lot and those of us who were disappointed but not disgusted by it. "},{"Title":"A sad, wonderful love story","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film could easily have become another disease-of-the-week movie. But thanks to Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent, Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville, what we get is a shattering, beautiful love story about the devastating effects of Alzheimers on a brilliant mind.The film seamlessly shifts between the present and the past.The performances are all terrific and Winslet is marvelous. She deserves an Academy Award, though she'll likely lose to Jennifer Connelly who was good in the dreadful (and much more popular) A Beautiful Mind.The revelation is Hugh Bonneville's performance as the young John Bayley. Bonneville obviously studied Broadbent's mannerisms and speech patterns. Not only is it believable that Bonneville is a younger Broadbent, but it helps immensely when the film shifts between Murdoch's past and present.There are moments in this film that are simultaneously beautiful, funny and sad. I won't give any of them away because you owe it to yourself to see this film, which runs only about 90 minutes.Winslet is radiant as the ebullient younger Murdoch; Dench who can make reading the phone book sound classy is wonderful, too. And Broadbent's performance is top-notch - you completely forget you're watching a performance. His outbursts, his quiet moments, his love for Iris ring completely true.If there is a flaw in this picture, it is director Richard Eyre's use of a musical score. There are times when the music overwhelms a scene. I wish he had trusted his actors and story to set the emotional tone. The scenes would have been more powerful without accompanying mood music. He should have taken a clue from Todd Field's direction in In the Bedroom.But that one quibble aside, Iris is a sensational picture. It's a love story in the truest sense of the phrase. "},{"Title":"A very touching example of growing old","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderfully witty author develops Alzheimer's in her golden years. What a sad loss to humanity and yet the film gives a touching insight into the advanced relationship of Iris and her husband.Not just a chick flick, this film is valuable to everyone as a deep rooted fear of old age does not have to be seen in our youth as a thing to ignore. We must learn to understand aging and the effects on society. "},{"Title":"Clever, well written and not too sad tale about Iris Murdoch, the great British novelist. She was stricken by Alzheimer's Disease. 4 Flys Out Of Five","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris fairly quickly turns to one of it's main topics, the `sailing into darkness' that is Alzheimer's disease. I might have left the cinema then, having encountered this twice in recent years with close relatives, but I'll now reassure you that the worst of that process isn't dealt with heavy handedly.                Iris is about the great British novelist and philosopher Iris Murdoch who wrote 28 novels in a distinguished career. The movie deals with her early academic life when she met her husband the literary critic John Bayley. Then we see her final years when she was struck very nastily by degenerative brain disease.                Iris is structured richly with a good many flashbacks, contrasting the vivacious, witty lover of words of the young Iris with the shadow who later emerged.                 Many of these images are very well managed, the script is tight and intelligent and the performances of in particular Jim Broadbent and Kate Winslet superb. They played the old John Bayley and the young Iris Murdoch. Hugh Bonneville is terrific as the young John as well.                Judi Dench I found disappointing as the older Iris but that's probably unfair. During the film I progressively steeled myself for the real tragedy that is mental disease, but this (thankfully) didn't emerge. Dench is always a terrific actor but here there seemed to be a big step between what she gave us and the reality I know.                Iris is lifted by clever direction and by the acting of Jim Broadbent and Kate Winslet. We don't get absolutely floored by a virulent depiction of the destruction of genius, but there's enough of that in real life anyway.4 Sane Flys  "},{"Title":"Wonderful performances in a flawed movie","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw iris last night. wonderful performances in a movie that unfortunately really lacked focus. the intercutting between young and old was ultimately distracting, but did show how the vivacious youth became the decrepit altzheimer's victim and what a tragedy that was (not being sarcastic there; it was.)another problem we never got to *know* this woman. the only thing i knew about her going in was that she was a famous english novelist. coming out, all i knew was she was a famous english novelist that slept around (with men and women) in her youth and died of altzheimer's. this woman is supposed to be a fascinating person, but i didn't feel that really came through.still, excellent performances all around by the main four, especially dame judi, who really played well. she must have studied altzheimer's patients. but the surprise delight was jim broadbent, who plays her husband in later life, is. i think he's nominated for this. he's a great actor who has done everything from silly slapstick comedy to real drama with panache. i'm glad he's getting the recognition he deserves. kate winslet played the young iris with sparkly-eyed enthusiasm, emphasizing the tragedy of the loss. and the man playing her husband as a youth did well and bore a striking similarity to broadbent, which worked well in linking the two storylines.anyway, despite it's flaws i'd recommend it for the performances.  "},{"Title":"First-rate acting is what you will see in `Iris'; Iris Murdoch,alas, can be found only in her writing.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" `Iris' is not really about novelist/philosopher Iris Murdoch-it is about her enduring romance with John Bayley and the degenerative effects of Alzheimer's disease.  Her words from the lecture podium are often aimed at the thematic core of the film the need for love.For those philosophical thoughts I could have watched for hours; for the shots of Kate Winslet as naked young Iris I could have watched 50 seconds; for the loss of Iris to the disease, 5 seconds is enough. I sat through Sean Penn's `I am Sam,' so I have had ample exposure already this year to actors acting disabled.Why can't I learn about the artist's creative process in these films about artists?  At least `Pollock' last year tried to show the process taking shape out of the personality of the artist.  I catch no conjunction of character and art in this film.  When Iris says at a lecture, There is only one freedom of any consequence that of the mind, I was thrilled to find a thematic statement and promise of deeper thoughts to come. They didn't arrive--the splendid performances of Jim Broadbent and Judi Dench did however. Previously this year, only the romance of the elderly couple in `Innocence' can compare.Yes, there is Jim Broadbent to savor here.  As husband Bayley, he is close to the perfect embodiment of the Oxford don and doting husband stuttering, hunched, sensitive, brainy, and eccentric. I loved him as bartender Col 10 years ago in `The Crying Game,' and he fully merits the academy award nomination for playing Iris's long-suffering husband.First-rate acting is what you will see in `Iris'; Iris Murdoch,alas, can be found only in her writing.    "},{"Title":"Deeply Moving, Not Maudlin","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING  MINOR SPOILERS!A drama about Alzheimer's Disease isn't likely to break box office records.  When it's about a famous author whose husband is still alive, the perils of film biography loom even larger (as is the case of Hilary and Jackie about Jacqueline Du Pre, victim of Multiple Sclerosis).  Iris transcends the obstacles.The four main actors are extraordinary as they portray the young Iris Murdoch, confident, beautiful and witty, and the older and powerful doyen of the cultural establishment as she begins to slip, knowingly and irreversibly, into the living death of organic brain disease.Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville are the young lovers.  She, a sexually experienced woman who seeks to define the meaning of freedom and apply it to her world, he, a stuttering virgin - brilliant but unsophisticated.  In older age Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent, husband and wife, painfully live through the process of departing cognitively while remaining together physically for most of Ms. Murdoch's terminal illness.Days gone by and a disintegrating present change screen places often and seamlessly.  Bright and vivacious young Iris is replaced in a second by fearful Dame Iris.  The transitions are well-done and provide a needed continuity.No clearer sign of the levelling that illness brings is the contrast between Dame Iris's fulsome introduction for a lecture on philosophy at the start of the film and not long thereafter an MRI technician casually addressing the encased writer by her first name as the topography of her devastated brain is charted.It would have been easy for the script and the film to be maudlin. It is excruciatingly honest.  Iris's husband, John, both loves his wife intensely and releases the anger, rage and frustration that are the almost inevitable concomitant reactions of living with an Alzheimer's patient.  I was especially touched by the scene in which Iris, who had slipped out of the house while her husband worked, was returned by an old friend.  I remember bringing back Alzheimer wanderers when I was with a police department and Jim Broadbent captures perfectly the mixed gratitude and intense shame that so many relatives feel and show when the outside world steps into their private hell.James Horner's score is quite good and Joshua Bell performs the violin solos beautifully.This is, in some ways, a very difficult movie.  We see screen figures, even those based on real life, combat cancer and schizophrenia in the belief that we will avoid those diseases but if we don't recovery is a real possibility.  As a doctor bluntly and honestly tells Iris after her husband tries to assure her she can beat Alzheimer's, it will win.    "}{"Title":"Excellent performances, but I wanted more...","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Talk about depressing!  Iris focuses on the decline into mental disintegration from Alzheimer's Disease of the famous and prolific novelist and philosopher Dame Iris Murdoch.  It also looks, from time to time, at the relationship between Murdoch and her adoring, devoted husband, the English professor and author John Bayley.  The problem I had with the film is that way too much time is spent cataloging the ravages of Alzheimer's and very little depicting the famed brilliance of Dame Iris.  Only the final two years of her life were blighted by the illness, so one realizes she spent the major part of her life dazzling the world with her wisdom and words. Her impressive oeuvre bears testimony to this.  Kate Winslet is spot on as the young bohemian academic Iris.  Whether she is spiritedly holding forth on a number of subjects, dancing, skinny dipping, or bicycling at top speed, Winslet captures the mad passion for life and love (partners of both genders) that the young Iris had.  Dame Judy Dench portrays the older Iris and her mental downward spiral with dignity and subtlety; we would expect nothing less from a performer of her calibre.  But I was eager to know more about the mature Iris, to see how time and experience might have softened or accentuated the eccentric edges of her genius.  All the film does is show us the wildfire youthful Iris, and a perfunctory scene with the older Iris, and then Alzheimer's takes over.  I found it unfair and even distasteful that the brilliant life and legacy of Dame Iris Murdoch, and one of the great love stories of the last century, has been reduced to a disease-of-the-week TV movie.  "},{"Title":"Insufficient Inner Life","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We eagerly went to see IRIS as soon as it opened here in Chicago expecting to like it a great deal, but alas, we did not.  In spite of the uniformly terrific performances by the four principals, we felt the filmmakers didn't provide enough substance for the actors to truly excel.  Kate Winslet, in particular, was surely capable of presenting the dynamic inner life of this great author, but she's never given the chance.  Imagine how poignant it would have been to see Judi Dench slip into darkness if we'd really felt her life force in the young Iris.It's impossible not to compare IRIS to A BEAUTIFUL MIND.  Although we know others disagree, we both feel strongly that Goldsman & Howard found impressive ways to dramatize John Nash's inner reality.  They focused on this because the most crucial aspects of this man's life happened in his mind, for better & for worse.  IRIS should have been the same.  What was important about this woman happened in her mind.  Swimming in the muddy river is fine, just like Nash looking at the stars, but it is not sufficient.Why was this film only 90 minutes long?  We felt robbed of all the (missing) scenes that could have helped us appreciate Iris Murdock's profound inner life.   "},{"Title":"Fine but depressing","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a film from the BBC one suspects this was to be a TV film which turned out rather good so got a cinematic release.Dame Judi is excellent as Dame Iris, the scene where Bayley is driven to distraction by her literally following him everywhere then wandering off is almost too painful.This all left me rather depressed about ageing and what may be in store for my elderly mother.What did really bug me was that it was never really explained fully that Dame Iris was not only a famed philosophy don but also a prolific and rather high brow author. We are told she was an author but it is left at that - whilst she was may be known to most educated Brits she wasn't exactly a world renowned writer and foreigners might have wanted to know what she wrote.I don't know whether Dame Judi ever met Dame Iris, to whom she bears a striking resemblance in this film, but at the premiere on TV Jim Broadbent was shown meeting John Bayley for the first time and some discomfiture was shown by both, though it must have been very odd for each of them.Dame Judi probably won't get the Oscar - it isn't a big enough film, plus she's a Brit. "},{"Title":"It threw me a lifeline","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I may be too close to Iris, seeing it just this evening, to give it fair comment, because its subject matter is pressing in on me, at the moment. My mother has been in hospital for weeks, struggling not with Alzheimer's but with others health problems that may restrict her freedom greatly, from now on, and may take her from us a lot sooner than I was expecting.I think this an excellent movie, not only for its fine acting, as others have commented here, but because I feel seeing it will help me cope with what has seemed an overwhelming challenge.The film points the way to an accepting the good with the bad--they're inseparable, anyway--why not embrace their being so? As in Iris' life, I've been afraid that a change in my mother really is (who she was before) could negate her life. The film reminds me this isn't so, even in the worst situations--and especially not when a person's dignity is supposedly compromised by things as slight and inconsequential, in the big picture, as incontinence. I'm grateful for the perspective of this film. When I have a chance to think about it along less personal and emotional lines, I'm sure I'll remark on many ways it succeeds artistically and as entertainment, besides its having thrown me a lifeline. "},{"Title":"Not just entertainment.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not Merchant-Ivory Land. It's not Shakespeare In Love either. It is Life and Death, as it happens, even to the educated and famous. So, it is not just entertainment. If you are not interested in feeling art's influence on your gut, stay home. If you are interested in an effective and realistic and artistic portrayal of the shared lives of a brilliant woman and her equally brilliant husband, take a deep breath and go. My fellow audience members were open mouthed and frozen in their seats after the film ended. A vast majority of the viewers sat through all the credits. I have worked as a caregiver with the problems in the movie, and I have to say it was absolutely right on. Bravo for the people behind this project. Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent were at their best, which is one step above excellent. Kate Winslet has turned in a very impressive performance, which, to me, indicates that she is moving from her 'young thing' status to an eagerly anticipated maturity in the league of Vanessa Redgrave, Judi Dench and other Brit marvels. Hugh Bonneville, who sees to have gone largely unnoticed in reviews, has carried off a remarkably quirky role with respect and charming grace. I give this movie high marks all around.     "},{"Title":"Beautiful Performances But..","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading the plot outline on IMDB gives a indication of what is wrong with this film.  You get the sense that perhaps the film did start out as one about six teenagers and their lives, but through editing choices, it became a story about Alzheimer's.  Bits of these other characters come and go in the movie and you're left wondering why they were there and how they fit into the film.   It really wasn't even about Iris Murdoch since you find out little about her books, her life and what she really thought about the myriad of things that she wrote about. Having watched it, I think that perhaps there was a much better movie that is lying on the cutting room floor somewhere.That said, it IS a stunning collection of performances.  Jim Broadbent gives a portrayal of John Bayley that is poignant beyond belief.  The nuances in his facial expression and the manner in which he shows how Bayley loved Murdoch - without reservation and almost child-like, was incredible.  Judi Dench is also wonderful, as always, but many of her moments that made it to the film are in the non-coherent phase of Murdoch's  illness, giving the performance a slightly impersonal facet that perhaps mirrors the illness itself.  Winslet gives the better of the two female performances, capturing an extremely vital and intriguing woman in her prime of life.  Her performance imparts a lot of the frustration of the movie, since having watched her, you really do want to learn more about what made Murdoch tick. Finally,  Hugh Bonneville rounds out the main cast with an equally incredible performance that captures Bayley so well that it is uncanny. (Why his name isn't included in the opening credits along-side the other three is beyond me.)So please go and see the movie if you love seeing great actors doing great work, but expect to be a bit disappointed with the film overall since it doesn't quite seem to know what it wants to be about.  "},{"Title":"Judy Dench is brilliant!!!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since both my mother and grandmother died from Alzheimer's, for me the subject matter of this film was a bit close to home.  Fortunately, Richard Eyre and his very accomplished cast - Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent,Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville - took this work way beyond sentiment and sadness, which is where it could have wallowed.  Personally, I found the film uplifting - a triumph of the spirit - and this possibly says more about me than it does about the film.Wallow in sadness and regret, if you like, but diseases like Alzheimer's are now quite common, and the best way to regard a person's life is not by what is cut off, but what remains behind - their legacy, if you will.  The love John Bayley had for his wife is the kind of love which makes life worth living - barely a hint of selfishness.All four main performances are stellar, but Dame Judi Dench's performance as Dame Iris Murdoch deserves the Oscar nomination she has received, as well as the Oscar (which she may not receive, due to her not being an American!!!) In my opinion, Dame Judi is the most skilled actress of both stage and screen in the world at present - no-one else even comes close. "},{"Title":"Excellent acted and nicely done but it's a tad dull..","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt that I should have liked Iris. I mean it undeniably has great acting from Dame Judi Dench (the titular character) and, especially, Jim Broadbent (her suffering husband). Dench is brilliant portraying Iris Murdoch, the renowned writer, who is suffering from Alzheimer's disease. It's almost painful to watch her at times. Similarly Broadbent, the mild mannered husband, also shines. The two actually come across as a couple of body and soul as opposed to the traditional Hollywood couple who are only ever joined in flesh, not mind.The story often flicks back to Iris as a young woman - played by Kate Winslett - in an attempt to show how their relationship developed. This is all fine but the cuts sometimes jar. It's not that they're done abruptly but they're not always smoothly woven in with the present day plot-line. You can be left wondering which is the main story.And now why I didn't love the movie... I found it dull. I got bored. The directing left little to the imagine - perfectly grand but it had a TV drama feel to it. The story-line was not obviously convoluted (we only had 90 minutes to work with) and yet it never grabbed me. It's no fault of the acting - I've praised them enough already - but I just failed to be engaged by the story. Additionally it's quite depressing -  particularly towards the end - which didn't add to my enjoyment. It's the acting that lifts Iris above mediocrity. Taking this into account I'll give it a 6.5/10. Dull but worthy as they say. "},{"Title":"A stroke of brilliance!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am enormously impressed by the way this film demonstrates the grief and sadness of people touched by this disease. Alzheimers has been called the carers' disease and this movie amply demonstrates why. Judi Dench has shown yet again what a superb actress she is, and I have a great deal of respect for the talented Kate Winslet and John Broadbent. I give this sensitive and beautiful movie full marks, and I look forward to seeing the acclaim for the stars, Judi Dench in particular. "},{"Title":"There's nothing like a Dame","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mental illness often makes challenging cinema &#150; think of `Rain Man' or `Shine'. Now both sides of the Atlantic have produced new movies on this theme, looking at the effect of such illness on brilliant and famous individuals from the US comes `A Beautiful Mind' examining schizophrenia and from the UK there is `Iris' portraying Alzheimer's Disease.The latter concerns the novelist and philosopher Dame Iris Murdoch (1919-1999) who was loved and cared for by her uxorious husband Professor John Bayley, on whose books the movie is based. Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville represent the couple at Oxford University in the early 1950s, while Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent take on the roles for the last years of the author's life &#150; what one critic has called the `bonking' and `bonkers' phases of her rich life. The performances are uniformly excellent, with Dench compelling in a role where expressions as much as words speak volumes. When she does speak, it is often movingly, as when she comments `I feel as if I'm sailing into darkness'.The film cuts constantly from one period to the other and would have been better served with a more settled structure. Also the subject matter in terribly depressing and anyone who has watched a loved one destroyed mentally &#150; in my case, it was my mother after a stroke &#150; will know how utterly helpless one feels.  But not all cinema can be escapist fantasies like `Harry Potter' and `Lord Of The Rings', so see `Iris' and be thankful for your mind. "}{"Title":"Love is Real","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A number of biographical movies has come out in 2001 - 'A Beautiful Mind', 'Ali', etc. Of these, I think, 'Iris' has achieved something rare and beautiful, presenting a love story of 'ordinary people' - if I might call Dame Iris and Prof. Bayley that - that is both genuine and moving. The mistake that Hollywood often makes is that their love stories are always like fairy tales, involving characters who are so self-conscious of their own movie stardom that the stories cease to be real. They almost make you believe that love is a game that is played exclusively by beautiful people, but nothing can be further from the truth than that. That is why we are glad when one of the rare gems like 'Iris' comes along, to remind us that love is a very, very special treasure that is much more real than Hollywood might want us to think.There are people who dismiss this film as a 'tearjerker', but I disagree. Yes, I did cry (almost incessantly), but the film never tries to manipulate people's emotions, unlike many other bona fide 'tearjerkers'. One cries only because one is led to believe that this love between the two main characters is most genuine and rare. I have read the book 'Iris A Memoir for Iris Murdoch' written by John Bayley, on which the film was based, and I think Richard Eyre must be credited for transferring onto the silver screen most, if not all, of the love that came through on paper. As for the acting, I have rarely seen a better ensemble. Having Dame Judi Dench, a highly accomplished actress, to play Dame Iris Murdoch, equally accomplished as a novelist and philosopher, is the best piece of casting. Dame Judi has once again astonished audiences by portraying a brilliant mind struggling through Alzheimer's, and her resonance with Kate Winslet, equally impressive as the young Iris, is quite extraordinary. Jim Broadbent deserved every bit of the Golden Globe for his portrayal of John Bayley, whose love for Iris shines through every single moment. Quite rightly, Dench, Winslet and Broadbent have been showered with awards and nominations, and if there is any justice they will be nominated come Oscar time. Hugh Bonneville, who played the young John, was also brilliant, presenting the character as a shy but lovable man. Thumbs up to all four actors for their exquisite performances, which make the film a highly memorable one. Watch it now if you (like me) are sick of watching sickly sweet romances churned out by Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Can I stop crying now?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Far preferable to an adaptation of an Iris Murdoch novel (it doesn't matter which one - they're all the same) this all-too-brief character study gets you where it hurts.  Whether Ms Murdoch was in reality a water-nymph is debatable.  Certainly she was someone who enchanted a great many people.  It is easy to see what John Bayley saw in her.  But what the hell did she see in him?  Apart from a fierce loyalty that (to quote Woody Allen) could best be described as canine, what else drew her to him?  Whatever it was, this film does not tell us.  So, when Young Iris (Kate Winslett) tells him, You are my world, it rings rather hollow.  Her world would appear to be a great deal more than that.  What does she want?  Who is she?  Perhaps the film is merely a marketing exercise for the collected works of the Murdoch/Bayley factory.  Perhaps I am being harsh.  For certainly, as a portrait of love in the face of illness and death, it is a great success. Judi Dench and Jim Broadbent play the older Murdoch/Bayley characters with such charm and subtlety that only the most hard hearted viewer could fail to be moved by their dilemma.  When Iris begins to falter, forgetting simple words, being unable to answer an interviewer's questions, it is terrible to watch.  Especially when he have seen tantalising glimpses of her brilliance in her earlier life.   But when Joan Bakewell says that it is her novels that will be her most important legacy, this is unfortunate, because her novels are hardly mentioned.  Iris herself throws a copy of one of them onto the ground.  Bayley mentions one, briefly.  But we hear nothing from them, we see none of their admirers.  We hear Murdoch giving a lecture (the same fragment of speech is heard, I think, three times) but we don't see much of her academic brilliance at University or later.   However, for all its flaws, Iris is a showcase for genuinely intelligent acting, and is a welcome oasis of subtlety amid the crass offerings at your local cinema. "},{"Title":"Unmissable","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A production as good as any of their recent stage successes, an elegant script and direction, thankfully lacking in any sentimentality. Acting without parallel. You could have heard a pin drop in the theatre from start to finish. A harrowing and unmissable film. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Such a simple film to tackle such a serious subject. The film makes you laugh and cry at the same time which in this day and age is quite unique. As a grandchild of an alzheimer sufferer, I can understand the subject matter of this film all too well, but the acting of Judi Dench is such what one thinks that no one actor on the face of the earth can possible put this message across any better than Judi. If this film fails to pick up any if not all the Baftas or Oscars it has been nominated for, there is no justice in this world.If you see just one more film in your life, please make it this one. "},{"Title":"Great movie, superbly acted, sentimentality too heavy","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie, superbly acted.  I felt that the 80/20 ratio of the love for her vs. her greatness, her smarts and why she was such an amazing person could've been more weighted on the side of the latter.  Her brilliance wasn't filled in enough, and I actually was probably less sympathetic about her, uh, in the end. "},{"Title":"Painfully wonderful. A difficult movie to watch but one that demands respect.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Certainly more art than entertainment. Terrific performances, but the film really is dominated not by the awesome Dame Judith Dench but by her long-overlooked co-star Jim Broadbent, whose talent here warrants an Oscar nomination--and not for his target category of Supporting Actor, but more properly for Best Actor. "},{"Title":"The triumph of love and devotion in the face of the debilitating illness of a great writer","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By now most people know the content of this film.  Iris Murdoch was widely known in the world of letters and to those who read literary fiction.  The lovely book, Elegy For Iris, written by her husband, John Bayley, was on best seller lists for many months.  It's now been translated with emotional and biographical accuracy to the screen...with bravura performances by Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent, Kate Winslet and Hugh Bonneville.  Not an easy task...without slipping into sentimentality!  Richard Eyre is to be congratulated on his work as co-writer and director.  We're given Iris as a young woman, a free spirit with few inhibitions,  earnest about her writing; and interspersed we see her as a mature woman, revered and celebrated, made a Dame of the Realm. But the most moving of all is the love and devotion given to her by John Bayley, first as inexperienced lover, then as her totally committed husband as she sinks further and further into dementia. He isn't portrayed as a saint.  We see his frustration and even his exasperated expressions of rage. More than moving (the obvious response), it touched some deep chord in me relative to the human spirit and its ability to give love and caring in the face of the metamorphosis of a brilliant mind, a life-loving being into a frightened, dysfunctional person who can't cope with her life or the world. What a strange and marvellous gift these actors and film-makers have given us!       "},{"Title":"A beautiful film about difficult moments in life","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris Murdoch was one of the greatest and most overlooked authors of the twentieth century. Her novels were peopled with characters trying to go about doing good in their own quirky ways. Some were comedic, some tragic and in the end, so too was her life.Iris presents us with the author at two basic moments in her life, just after completing her first novel, and just after completing her last. Kate Winslet is wonderful as the young Iris, but Dame Judi Dench steals the film with her portrait of the artist as she descends into dementia. It is naturalistic and never over played. Jim Broadbent also delivers a very strong role as Murdoch's husband. "},{"Title":"Amazing display of life's weakness and hope......","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe the movie was able to capture the true realization of   alzheimer's. It truly opened my eyes to the effects it would have on a person or there family...Judy Dietch was able to carry this film and all of its meanings... Kate Winslet was compelling and captivating to ones self absorption to the ambitions of ones success...It was a beautifully expressed.. "},{"Title":"Good, but not effective.","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good, but not effective. This is my summary and it means a great deal. The lead actor- Jim Broadbent was really good in the film and indeed most believable, however Judi Dench was very disappointing. I felt she didn't sensitively deal with the storyline and her acting was awful. The plot was realistic enough, but rushed and ruined. I felt very little sympathy for Alzheimer's disease was appreciated in the film and this was disappointing, it was rushed and ruined as a result. Itb was quite dramatic, but I felt very disappointed on a whole for the film.Acting- Average. Genre- Average. Plot/Storyline- Poor.4. "}{"Title":"Way overrated","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent and Kate Winslet are all as fantastic as ever, the film as a whole was a pointless squandering of a fascinating true story. Having seen a BBC documentary about Murdoch's life I was amazed of some of the things the filmmakers chose to leave out - like the fact that Murdoch did actually start to think the characters of her novel were real people. How good would that blurring of reality/fiction have been in a movie? A waste of everybody's time including, criminally, mine. "},{"Title":"What a let down","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing Iris.  I rented the DVD at a time when I could enjoy it on my own, as my fiance had seen it in Blockbuster and dismissed it as a girly, boring movie....  Well, he was right.  But he missed the word confusing.I have NO idea what this movie was trying to tell us, apart from how shattering Altzheimers is.  Growing up in the UK as a book lover, you'd think I would have heard of Iris Murdoch, but I never did.  Still, this did not deter me - I had not heard much about Jacqueline Du Pre when I watched Hilary and Jackie and that movie was fantastic. However, I really struggled to understand what made this woman worthy of this attention.  She seemed pretty disagreeable in her youth, what with the sexual exploits and infidelities.  The movie did little to explain what made her such a fantastic writer, what made her such a revered figure.The suggestion that this film is a love story is ridiculous.  At no point in the film could I understand why Iris and John felt anything at all for the other.  As someone else mentioned, perhaps some insights into their early married life and middle years would have been helpful?  I could not grasp what it was that made John so heavily rely on the spiteful Iris, and why she would want to abandon her precocious young ways to marry a fusty old man and live in a messy cottage??The whole thing was such a dissapointment - in Hilary and Jackie you can really feel how much Hilary loves Kiffer, in The English Patient it's clear the intense feelings the Count has for Katharine; but in Iris, it was as if they felt they could abandon the love motives, in order to concentrate on Iris' love of swimming!The movie reminded me of Enigma in which Kate Winslet was just as vapid and stereotypical.  Both movies left you at the end with this annoying sense of questions unanswered, of stories that could have unfolded, of scenes lost.I would like to add that they did such a great job with Jim Broadbent and Hugh Bonneville that it was not until the end that I realised they were two different actors, not one with excellent makeup.  Maybe I'm dim (having seen both actors in several other movies) or maybe it's just great casting.Would I recommend anyone watch this movie - No.  There are much better and less frustrating ways to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"A brilliant tragedy","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a powerful, accurate, disturbing and heart rending examination of the ravages of Alzheimers Disease. My already immense respect for Judi Dench doubled after seeing her in the difficult and glamourless role of Iris Murdoch. Kate Winslet, whom in the past I have regarded as a lightweight, gave a top performance as the feisty and independent minded young Murdoch. Jim Broadbent twists your heart as her loving but overwhelmed husband. The film swings back and forth some 40 years, illustrating the devestating contrast between the wild and lusty young Murdoch and the pitiful, debilitated crone she would  become. It's a compelling and graphic portrayal  with no punches pulled of the hell that Alzheimers creates for both its victims and their loved ones. Television doesn't get any better than this! "},{"Title":"Actor's triumph (of course)","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As always, the English are extremely good in reconstructing historical surroundings, clothes, make-ups and so on. But this is also a question of English acting at its best.There isn't much to be said about Dame Judi Dench, who is probably one of the greatest actresses in the world right now. But she is matched, not by Kate Winslet, although Winslet is quite good, but by the men Hugh Bonneville and Jim Broadbent as Iris Murdoch's husband in young and old incarnation.That male character is rather rare in films. He very seldom gets the girl, but this is a movie about real life, so maybe its possible. There is one scene here that lifts itself (concerning real life) over the rest of the movie and that is when Iris tells about her lovers and Mr. Bailey tries to look unmoved, speaking about bad war widow pensions. Iris understands all of his pain. In that moment she understands the man in his poorness completely and starts loving him for real. She says that he is her world. That is rather beautiful.That's a small detail in the script, but that one alone makes this film well worth seeing.        "},{"Title":"Over-rated bio-pic of famous writer","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Iris is about Iris, Iris Murdoch, and 2 parts of her life- her creative peak when she met and fell in love with John Bayley years and years ago, and her final months in a haze of alzheimer's that crippled her mind to the point when she didn't even know she finished a book before she lost her mind.The movie captures both of these times, however I must say the film would've fared much better if they kept chronology in the course of the picture instead of flipping back to the old times during befuddling and too saddening for comfort scenes with Dench and Broadbent (why those two got nominated and that Broadbent beat out McKellan and Kinglsey is beyond my academy award contemplation).  The scenes with the young Murdoch- played by Winslet in the best performance of the movie- are far more interesting and provocative than those showing the mentally gone Murdoch of old.  I've never read any of her books, but when the script stops to deluge what's in them it almost sounds intriguing, unlike the person who wrote them.Outside of Winslet and cinematography by Pratt, it's not worth the time or admission (maybe a quick peek on TV, that's about it really).  C+ "},{"Title":"Where's the storyline.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only went to see Iris because Gosford Park was full.  If you want to learn about Alzheimers, buy a book or watch a documentary.  The absence of a storyline was the main flaw.  The best part was it's duration - I only had to sit through a short bad film, not a long bad film.  "},{"Title":"Iris","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" You have to pay really good attentions to the movie; all throw it, because it changes back and forth between the present and the past. You see at lot about how john and Iris were in their younger days, and how their life's has changes from then till now. I actually get a little angry when I see how Iris treats john, and that john just adjusts to how Iris thinks there life should be, she tells john that he's the one she loves, but she doesn't really show him until they gent older. From my opinion john could have got a better and more independent life without Iris, he is a really clever man with a lot of empathy and love to give, he should have used it on someone else instead. I don't dislike Iris, she a really independent and free spirited woman, and i respect that, but she shouldn't behave the way she does around john. The movie has a really clear message, about how a person's whole life can changed because of dementia. Iris becomes a person who is totally opposite of the person she used to be. She goes from totally independent to a person who needs to be taken care of all the time. From my perspective the movie is as realistic as it could be, it really shows how dementia affects the person with dementia and the person's who are around. I don't like the characters in the movie, neither young nor old. But I like the story, and the message about life before, and life with dementia. "},{"Title":"Good Acting in a Fine But Fairly Uninspired Movie","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty standard biopic about author Iris Murdoch (Judi Dench) and her struggle with Alzheimer's.There are no complaints with the film's acting, which in addition to Dench's performance includes an Oscar-winning portrayal of Murdoch's loyal husband (played by Jim Broadbent) and extended glimpses of Murdoch's younger self (played by Kate Winslet). But performances aside, the film never rises above the level of fair, mostly because it's just too safe and too reminiscent of a million other biopics about famous artists.Dench and Winslet were also Oscar nominated, only the second time that two different actresses received nominations for playing the same character in the same film (the other being Titanic, which also starred Winslet in the younger self role -- how's that for obscure trivia?) Grade B "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum Biography","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This screen biography of Iris Murdoch flashes back and forth between her twilight years as she battles Alzheimer's disease and her life as an aspiring writer in the 1950s. The casting is uncanny - it's totally believable that Winslet and Bonneville would age into Dench and Broadbent, respectively. The acting is also quite good, particularly Broadbent as the supportive but long-suffering husband of the woman who enjoyed a sexually adventurous life, a role that won him an Oscar. The problem is that there isn't much to the script other than mundane scenes of life then and now. Without a compelling plot to tie it all together, the film fails to sustain interest despite its short length. "},{"Title":"Too Much Alzheimer's, Not  Enough Murdoch","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have noticed that in the last couple of years that there have only been two negative reviews of the movie. This contrasts with the mostly glowing earlier reviews. I think the negativity comes because people who are seeking out the movie now are looking for a movie about Iris Murdoch and are disappointed that it is 85% a movie about Iris Murdoch with Alzheimer's disease and only 15% of a movie about Iris Murdoch. Seven years ago, when the movie came out, it was rare to see a movie or T.V. show having a character with Alzheimer's. In the last few years, it has become quite commonplace.There hasn't exactly been many movies about women philosophers -- I can think of only -- well, none to be exact. Therefore, it is a bit disappointing that there is only about 10 minutes intermittently devoted to her as a philosopher.Since she was a philosopher/novelist for 40 years and a woman with Alzheimer's for only about 5 years, it would have been much more appropriate to show her with the disease for only the last 10 minutes of the movie. In a way, the movie betrays her life by focusing on the disease, instead of her life. I know this sounds horrible, but I'm wondering if this movie is more an attack on her rather than a tribute.The acting is fine by everybody and Kate Winslett is extremely hot looking (to be a bit crude).As women philosophers are not often the subject of major motion pictures, I just wish the filmmakers had something more to say than Isn't it sad how she died of Alzheimer's. Simone De Beauvoir did a wonderful book about the last year she spent with Jean Paul Sartre when he was dying. It was great to read, but I hope that nobody makes a movie out of it. There are dozens of great movies that could be made out of the lives of Sartre and De Beauvoir. There is just no great movie to be made out of their deaths. The same is true for Iris Murdoch. "}{"Title":"Alzheimer and love","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Firstly, this film is a biography of Murdoch. This woman very important England and world as well.As you watch this film, you can feel what is the hardness of Alzheimer illness. You are related an Alzheimer person , it is a very very tough thing. Furthermore you can learn somethings about love. Egs Meantime, have patience.(Shakespeare, William). A little more patience. (Hugo, Victor).I begged his patience to hear me tell my story, which I faithfully did from the last time I left England to the moment he first discovered me. (Swift, Jonathan).As a consequence, if you are fall in love, you will see anything. iris shows us very very impressive things about emotion. "},{"Title":"Iris from another perspective","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The key concept to understand and appreciate Iris is to realize that the film was not done as a biography. It was filmed to show us the last years of,probably the greatest post-war British female writer, a genius mind and its downfall due to Alzheimer's disease. If one intends to learn about Dame Murdoch's life, then I am most sorry to tell that that will not happen.I most firmly believe that the performances are superb,magnificent and most touching. Kate Winslet does great job in playing Iris as a young woman.Well, there are no words to describe the extraordinary Jim Broadbent, who truly deserved that Oscar. His fulfillment of the character is outstanding, making him (in my opinion)one of the Best Supporting Performances in a long time.Mrs. Dench, what can one possibly say to describe such a gifted actress. With all due respect to Miss Halle Berry, I can not comprehend how she took the Academy Award that year. I know! That scene when she cries in the hospital after her son dies in Monster's Ball is absolutely fantastic, what I like to call an Oscar moment but Judy Dench's performance is an Oscar moment during the whole movie, and that is most difficult to accomplish.As a whole, the movie is very good. It manages to make us sympathetic with the whole situation, no to act as a mere spectators. This is produced by the good directing. The interpretations are what make this movie such a good and remarkable picture. In my opinion a Must See and one of the best, if not the best, movies of 2001. "},{"Title":"very good and all mainly true","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" this is less of a review and more of a statement! Janet stone in the movie was my grandmother! and Emma stone is my mother!! so I no all about this movie, and these are there are some things in the movie that are untrue for instance at Janets funeral when john made his speech everyone found it amusing and everyone was laughing I was there after all!!! and also in the scene where Janet was having a shower with Iris well that never happened she had the shower with her in fact she had the shower with Johns now wife. Ans the character of Janet was never really like that she in fact was incredibly grand and wore amazing cloths. So if you love this film then there are a few things to say about it! "},{"Title":"Excellent cast","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Iris' tells the story of the writer Iris Murdoch. Kate Winslet plays the younger Iris, in the period she met her husband. Judi Dench on the other hand plays the Iris who is suffering from Alzheimer. The young Iris is a bit crazy and extraordinary, but also very sweet and gentile sometimes. Meeting the older Iris is very tragic, you really feel sorry for her. And then there is Iris' husband, who is the reincarnation of unconditional and eternal love, love through everything, even through Alzheimer...The acting in this movie is superb. Judi Dench gives again a great performance, high class acting like we're used to see from here. Kate Winslet is also very good but I don't think her performance was really Oscar-worthy.. Actually it's Jim Broadbent who really steels the show. His performance is very touching and sweet. He has the advantage that he could play a charming person but he manages to do it in an excellent and unique way. I was also very surprised by the amazing performance of the (to me) unknown Hugh Bonneville. He gave one hell of a performance as well.Touching and beautiful movie. Go see it. Definitely worth watching!8,5/10 "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I purchased this movie primarily because I am a great fan of Kate Winslet and I wasn't disappointed. Iris is one of few movies to attempt to deal with the problem of Alzheimer's Disease and I thought it did so with great compassion.A curious thing about Alzheimer's is that the victim of it will often regress in his or her memory---more or less re-living things that happened to them years ago. President Reagan, as he declined in the illness, was said to have talked a lot about his days as a teenage life guard. Iris I think creates this regression very well. The scenes jump from the elderly Iris Murdoch who is confused and losing her present memory, to the young Iris writing her first books and falling in love with her husband. In essence were seeing what the elderly Iris is seeing and thinking.The acting was first rate all around. Jim Broadbent deservedly received an Oscar as Iris's husband, John Bagley. Bagley worships his extraordinarily talented wife throughout their life together and she reveals herself to him in a way that she will not reveal herself to any other person. Though the young Iris is sexually dynamic, sensuous and brilliant, she accepts the love of the young John Bagley who, while brilliant himself, is clumsy, stuttering and woefully inexperienced in relationships. But she connects with him in a profound way. Hugh Bonneville plays the young Bagley and he and Broadbent uncannily morph into the same person---same stuttering, same mannerisms.I thought Kate Winslet's performance was extraordinary, as usual. "},{"Title":"Veterans take it all.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just focus on the acting of the two British veteran actors, one will find high enjoyment when seeing this movie. The setting at Oxford though is lyrical, it is not the star of the movie, acting, it is the acting that makes their movie lovable. In western literary world, Simone de Beauvoir, Sylvia Plyth and Virginia Woolf are always the talk of people. That may be because of their views on sex, their work, their literary achievement and also their unusual tragic death. For Iris Murdoch, people tend to look at her works more than her fabulous love and personal life.Iris is a lucky woman, luckier than many well-known poetess or female counterparts. She has her own literary career and a faithful man John Bayley, (he was marvelously played by the presently 55-years-old Jim Broadbent in the movie. By the way, Dame Judi Dench is 70 this year.) who tolerates her sporadic affairs after their marriage. She did not have very attractive appearance, in some ways, she looks boyish, but she had a captivating and open mind, just read her language, read her work, one can confirm this is true.Kate Winslet's interpretation is marvelous. However, I am wondering if she can act in a film without stripping from head to toe. It beats me that she takes off everything in each project she does. Maybe she needs a shrink. (Oh, Emily Mortimer is another one, perhaps they can go to the psychologies together.)Sylvia, Tom & Viv, Byron, Hemingway, Shakespeare in Love, The Hours, Henry & June, Dostoyevsky are all about life of literary figures and I hope to have more later. "},{"Title":"Heart-rending","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In which Judi Dench gives a performance probably even better than in Mrs Brown. I don't really know who Iris Murdoch was or what she wrote, but that's not so important to me. We see the young Iris, so full of life, and we see her gradual spiralling descent into mental illness. It's heart-breaking. The sequence when her husband literally shakes her from frustration is hard to watch, but so true to life. This hasn't been seen by enough people.  "},{"Title":"Dull story well acted","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting seemed splendid for sure, but paradoxically, I sensed no plausible attraction between the leads I simply did not buy into their relationship. Presumably either the cogent Murdoch was more dull, or the hubby was more interesting than the nice, bumbling guy of the movie. I had a Grandmother perish from Alzheimer's and know the astonishingly creepy feeling of being asked the same question over and over only minutes apart as if anew. Given the relative numbers of those affected, perhaps more money should be poured into curing this very common disease than the relatively rare politically correct diseases like AIDS. Having said that, I was astonished that the entire movie was about the decay of the mind. It was a bit like watching a movie about Beethoven and concentrating on how he tended his garden. Winslet's story was vastly more entertaining, yet it went nowhere, I know little more about the woman except she was a flirt that ended up as a vegetable. Given this disastrous emphasis of senility over wit, all kudos to the actors for making this movie fairly watchable. P.S. a disrobed Kate is splendid value for money. May the prudes be banished back to the Victorian age ;) "},{"Title":"A moving bio-pic","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had never even heard of Iris let alone read any of her novels but this film was very moving. It was 'sad and depressing but also very poignant' to see Iris decline and her husband cope as someone else mentioned. I don't know how accurate it is in depicting Iris' life but I appreciated the performances though I don't think I'll ever visit this film again. Still recommended, 7/10.  "},{"Title":"I would have liked to have seen why Iris Murdoch was so famous","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never heard of Iris Murdoch.  So, it didn't make much sense to me when this movie talks about her being a really great writer.  The movie leaves all that out. It shows flashbacks of a young Iris falling in love with her soon-to-be husband, and the rest of the film is about her dementia in her elder years.  I thought this movie was boring.  I wasn't interested in watching a medical documentory on Alzheimer's.  And I can't think of one scene that I really liked.FINAL VERDICT  Not very good and definitely not entertaining. "}{"Title":"Great *YAWN* performances but....","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Broadbent won an Oscar for Best Performance by a Supporting Actor for his portrayal of John Bayley, a wonderful literary critic and spouse of the late Iris Murdoch whom the movie is about. It was a well-deserved Oscar (and I'm sure his very different role in Moulin Rogue the same year had some play in it). All four of the actors (Hugh Bonneville played the Younger Bayley and Kate Winslet/Judi Dench played Iris) turned in some of the finest acting I have ever seen. Judi Dench was way more worthing of the Oscar than that horrible performance put in by Halle Berry in Monster's Ball. Hugh Bonneville didn't get enough recognition for his fine acting IMHO.However, despite the wonderful performances and the wonderful subject matter, I can not recommend this movie. There was no plot. Just two different stories juxtaposed together neither one delivering the goods. The movie makes Bayley look like a bumbling idiot which he is not. The movie does nothing to explain their relationship - just a little bit of when they met and then when they are old. The movie ended leaving me very dissatisfied - I didn't know any more about the great Iris Murdoch than before watching it. "},{"Title":"Sleep inducing void.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had wanted to like Iris.  I like Winslet and I like Dench.  Further, A.S. Byatt lists Iris Murdoch as a seminal influence.  Hard to go wrong, I thought.Realised right away when Frasier's brother Niles (Miles?) 'introduced' the movie with a public service announcement regarding Alzheimers, that I did think wrong.  Trying to keep awake the second half of the movie only made things worse.Let me begin by saying that Winslet & Dench were both remarkably good with what they were given.  Unfortunately, they weren't given much.  As mentioned by at least one other reviewer, I finished the movie none the wiser about Iris Murdoch as an individual.  Instead, there were lots of underwater swimming scenes, snippets of speeches and the suggestion that Murdoch was rather sexually adventurous for someone of her era.  Then she had Alzheimers.  The elements are all fine and good in and of themselves, but they seemed completely random.  Forget thinking that watching the movie would give you insight into Murdoch's philosophy or literary works.  It doesn't even adequately explain why she ended up with John Bayley. Bayley is played as an unattractive, stuttering bumbler.  His intentions are unquestionably good, he can be endearing and he obviously adores Murdoch, but why does Murdoch -intelligent,  witty, popular- fall in love with him? how do they manage all those years together?Blah.  I obviously must make a trip to the library. "},{"Title":"An acting masterclass","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The fact that Iris is more just a simple love story than a biography works both for and against it. By focusing on two periods of the writer's life, the film allows two pairs of excellent actors to combine with a memorably heartbreaking effect. Brilliant as she is, this is Dench's 'Rain Man', which probably cost her the Oscar - assaying mental and physical disability no longer guarantees the gongs. Broadbent is outstanding and thoroughly deserves every plaudit he gets. Winslet is typically, wonderfully feisty and Bonneville is superb in the bridging role. A more perfectly acted film doesn't exist.But I was left none the wiser about Iris Murdoch's work or what made her tick. I've never read any of her books; all I know now is that they were about 'good and evil, freedom, sexuality and love'. What made them so special? And what made her so special?We're shown that she was a highly intelligent good-time girl in her youth, but that just makes the ending more poignant. It doesn't tell me why I should feel that her loss was any greater than that of anyone else whose beautiful mind has been erased by Alzheimer's. It's a shame, but ultimately, this movie could have been about anybody, and I'm sure that the film-makers wanted Iris Murdoch to come across as more than just 'anybody'. "},{"Title":"Very well-acted","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Iris' was regarded as one of the best well-acted films of 2001. The film is based on the real life story of Iris Murdoch. She was a legendary free-spirited british writer who suffered from Alzheimer's Disease in her latter years. Judi Dench was fantastic as Iris. Oh! Judi! Judi! Judi! You did it again! Jim Broadbent, who won the best supporting actor oscar for his performance as Iris' devoted husband John Bailey, is one of the most underrated actors around. His acting talents are definitely `broad' enough to take notice. Kate Winslet executed a titanic performance as the free-spirited young Iris. Also, `hugh' should take notice to Hugh Boneville's performance as the young Bailey. Even though `Iris' does drag at times and may make your iris eyes wander off; it is still a very important film about love, triumph, and alzheimer.  *** Average  "},{"Title":"Immediately impressive, but verges on superficial.","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most important thing about Iris is also the most obvious one the performances from the four main actors are extremely strong - in fact, it's not worth singling one of them out, they all make the film immediately worth watching.The structure of the film, with the intertwined stories of two relatively brief periods in Iris Murdoch and John Bayley's life, is also superficially impressive, and creates some impressive juxtapositions.  On the other hand, it's this structure that makes Iris unrewarding after the first viewing - it jumps from past to present far too frequently, which hampers the plot (there basically isn't one), and means that very little insight is gained into what the characters actually do for a living.  Having John Bayley tell us how brilliant Iris is doesn't really engender confidence if all she does in the movie is make a few catty remarks and scribble a few pages.The depiction of a couple in love and their ageing and death is very nicely done - it's just a pity that we're denied enough detail about what makes Iris and John so special as individuals. "},{"Title":"Slow, *Yawn* Probably honest and accurate","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not familiar with Iris Murdoch's work as an author.  They mentioned several times in the movie what a great author and thinker she is/was.  However, I didn't have the personal experience to know if that was true or not.  The movie moves along at a slow pace, juxtaposing events from the the beginning of John and Iris's relationship with the events of the ending of their relationship.  The time shifting technique was effective for conveying the depth, and importance of their relationship.  Although, it wasn't really obvious to me why either of them liked the other.  But, there certainly are relationships like that.  The story is ultimately sad and tragic, and left me feeling down, which isn't the way I usually like to feel after watching a movie.The movie Before Night Falls is also kind of a tragic story about a Cuban writer.  I also wasn't familiar with the work of the subject of that movie.  However, in that story, several times between scenes a voice over would read text that the subject of the movie had actually written, that seemed appropriate for that part of the movie.  I thought that technique helped provide some appreciation for the insight and wit of the subject of the movie.  Something similar in Iris may have helped me appreciate Iris more. "},{"Title":"What is mind ?","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is mind the result of complex *physical* interactions between cells? Can cells have consciousness of 'them'selves? Or is mind the result of a spiritual entity imprisoned in matter? How does one explain that 'mind' disappears with a hard blow from a hammer?  How does one explain that 'mind' knows that it knows? This film asks all the right questions and give only one answer in the end, only 'love' matters. But what is love? This a hugely important film.  The actors are all superb.  I have long ago despaired from seeing this kind of film coming from Hollywood, but who knows?  Perhaps Sept.11 will make some people mature a bit. "},{"Title":"Disappointing disease of the week movie, but reasonably good performances","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sort of `disease of the week' movie. But whereas `A Beautiful Mind' (a film about schizophrenia) has a reasonable amount of substance and a very professionally turned out script, this movie, about author Iris Murdoch's descent into Alzheimer's, failed to convince me of her literary genius or even inspire me to read one of her books. Pseudo-philosophical profundities are uttered with all the conviction that Judi Dench (the older version of Iris) can muster, which is quite a lot, whilst the younger, abandoned Iris is portrayed in multiple flashbacks by Kate Winslet, who manages to get her kit off in most of these scenes. Jim Broadbent works manfully to convince us that a great mind such as Murdoch would fall for a total anorak such as the one played by him (and by Hugh Bonneville in the younger version) but, although it's quite a good movie and at least airs a subject (dementia) that needs to be more widely aired, its one where ultimately its sum is less than its parts. There are some choice cuts in this much hyped film, but the joins have as much pzzazz as congealed gravy. "},{"Title":"A BEAUTIFUL MIND","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  IRIS (2001) ***1/2  Judi Dench, Jim Broadbent, Kate Winslet, Hugh Bonneville.  Heartbreaking true-life account biopic about acclaimed British author Iris Murdoch who succumbed to Alzheimer's disease.  Dench and Winslet play Murdoch in her latter and early days respectively as well as Broadbent and Bonneville as her beloved husband and colleague in literature John Bayley (all by the way superb and effortless in their transitions onscreen uncannily echoing each other).  Based on Bayley's books about his late, great wife and the downward spiral that was cruelly ironic for such a woman of wit and talent. (Dir Richard Eyre)  "},{"Title":"The movie was fine.","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie was a little long range, with many flashback in to Iris past. It was nice to have see how her life was when she was younger, where she writing and was a person who lived a very free life, without depending on any one. In the movie, are there were many collections from before she was ill, which she was known, had very different for large vocabulary, but also that she loved to write. After she became ill with Alzheimer's she knew not how she was going to write. One of the flashback, are shown many times in the film is when they ate out and cycling, where John, Iris husband, yells after her that she needs to slow down because he cant keep up with her. I think that the flashback describes much of the films idea about how that relationship is. Because he constantly, is after her, and falls just into her lifestyle. If one thinks of when she is healthy, he does what she says and does to adapt into her everyday life, even when she gets sick. It is also him who suits her, and his everyday life is going to fit into how she did it. The movie describes well have it is to have the Alzheimer disease. "}{"Title":"And to think that I'd never heard of Iris Murdoch before this movie came out.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Judi Dench gives the performance of a lifetime as author Iris Murdoch, who eventually developed Alzheimer's disease. She really gets into the role, as she's done with every one of her performances with which I'm familiar. Jim Broadbent won Best Supporting Actor playing her husband John Bayley, who loves her but often gets frustrated by her mental condition. This is certainly a movie that I recommend to everyone. Also starring Kate Winslet as young Iris, and Hugh Bonneville as young John.I still remember when Jim Broadbent won his Oscar. The next day, we were hiking up an Indian dwelling in Bandalier, New Mexico (it was spring break), and I was thinking When people heard that, I bet that most of them were thinking Jim who?. "},{"Title":"Iris","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a true story, this is a really good film about one woman's life with a hard to deal with problem that his husband has to live with. BAFTA winning, and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Dame Judi Dench plays Iris Murdoch, a famous writer who makes books, most about her private thoughts and problems made into a story or autobiography like book. Iris's husband John (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Jim Broadbent) is proud of her making these books, but there are moments when living with her he cannot deal with. She suffers Alzheimer's disease, and doesn't understand what is going on, and has panics for no reason. She also has flashbacks of her life with young John, where she is played by Oscar nominated Kate Winslet, with a couple of nude scenes thrown in. Also starring BAFTA nominated Hugh Bonneville as Young John Bayley and Shaun of the Dead's Penelope Wilton as Janet Stone. I thought Broadbent stole the show, particularly with his panics, happy times, but ultimately struggling to cope with Iris. It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Adapted Screenplay. Kate Winslet was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Winslet was number 2, and Dame Judi Dench number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, Dench was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and Winslet was number 29, and Dench number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor, and Jim Broadbent was number 23 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"Horrible, Pretentious Movie","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very poor execution of a contrite message. Pseudo-intellectuals will rave about the message. But will forget to mention the movie was terrible from every technical aspectcinematography, lighting, sound, score...you name it; terrible plot, uncreative use of fractured time, ostentatious (very unlikely) script, grotesque acting; director should stick to TV;Might have been much better done by different director, actors, etc.If you like boring, heady movies and like to pretend that you caught on to something no one else could, basically that you are an intellectual above and beyond the masses, go see it. But you will have to pretend, because even you will have a terrible time.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic, gloomy 'documentary' on Alzheimer's disease","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is total rubbish - not much more than a 'documentary' on Alzheimer's Disease.  Entertainment?  It's like watching some sort of public information documentary on health and well-being.  Who the hell would want that in a cinema? (particularly Iris/Judi Dench as an old woman, absent-mindedly urinating in her own living room)Kate Winslet is busy stripping off and flashing her stuff, as usual.  Is she an exhibitionist?  She used to be very attractive but is now getting older and is not really up to it anymore - she definitely appears overweight.  But, obviously, it turns her on to strip off in EVERY film in which she appears (just like in Quills).The cinema I was in contained mainly OLD people, probably approaching senility and Alzheimer's themselves - hence the educational format of the film, I imagine.  Curiously, many of the audience decided to laugh very loudly at the slightest provocation (usually at the contemporary, Jim Broadbent/Judi Dench scenes), almost as though it was Laurel and Hardy or something.  Why do audiences laugh at anything these days, even when it's not a comedy film?  Is it a new kind of social phenomenon?Iris Murdoch (in her young, Kate Winslet years) was a boring, total idiot, I have concluded after leaving this film at the 70 minute mark.  Why are all 'geniuses' totally arrogant and selfish, too?  "}]