[{"Title":"Great family film","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you like dogs, if you like an adventure, you'll probably enjoy this film. Even a bit of a tear-jerker as Cuba Gooding goes to save his long-lost father! The love interest is attractive. The dogs are cute. Even the border-collie is great! My 4 yo loves the movie. We re-enact the Demon, save me! scene often. Demon is the name of the lead dog. Comical slapstick mishaps run throughout the film as Ted (Cuba) is constantly being chased by dogs, dragged through the snow, slides down hills, and suffers mild injuries. None of these are excessive, however, a few crude remarks, some adult dialogue and a suggestive image, are not appropriate for very young children. But reasonably acceptable for children age 6 and up. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie because it was fun and entertaining.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched this movie on one of the big networks last night, and ran across it purely by accident. Since I didn't even know the title, I had to look it up on IMDb. So, I read the other comments and decided to add my own. Sure, it was a predictable plot, but what isn't? Almost no story idea is new these days, just modified, re-packaged, and directed differently. There's still a lot to enjoy! I have to say, Cuba Gooding, Jr. was perfectly cast in his role as Dr. Ted Brooks because he's so well suited to slapstick and not just serious dramatic roles (which he excels at). I really enjoyed the way his character handled surprise situations. Being a Miami dentist and suddenly finding yourself across the continent in a completely different culture, especially in wilderness Alaska, can lead to some hilarious situations, and this movie went there. The dogs were funny (enhanced with some computer graphic features to occasionally make them humanized), and the dream sequence was good too. I also enjoyed James Coburn, who's tough guy image was perfect in this comedy role. Plus it was great to see Uhuru from Star Trek cast as Mrs. Brooks. Whatever others might say, that this movie is great for kids but dumb for adults, is just not true. As a well-educated adult, I still found it fresh and fun. For those commenter's who thought the movie was silly for just for kids I guess some people just don't know how to have good clean fun!! "},{"Title":"entertaining movie","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't know understand all the bad hype concerning this movie. I thought it was very entertaining but then I love dogs and in this day of fighting and killing, it was a very refreshing break. The acting may have been over the top at times,  but the dogs are the REAL stars of this movie and my daughter, who is 6, really liked it. Since most movies aren't made to be taken seriously, there is no reason to diss this one because there were too many pratfalls or at times the human stars didn't live up to the audience's standards. I found myself laughing mostly at the dog's stunts even though I know most of it was computer generated. I have a chow/husky mix named Grizz and he has alot of Demon's qualities and if he were able, he would emote those computer generated facial expressions. This is a kid's movie for the most part but considering the types of violent movies and games kids are exposed to nowadays, Snow Dogs was and still is a nice change of pace in an all too serious world.  "},{"Title":"A very cute and entertaining family film","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My mom has been bugging me to watch Snow Dogs, it's funny because she hates Disney and I'm such a big fan, but these movies are always typical and I had no interest in seeing the movie. But my mom insisted again and again, so I finally went ahead and watched it last night, yeah, it was very silly and predictable, but it was fun to watch because it's such a fun family film. It had cheesy jokes here and there, but they made me laugh, the great thing I that I really liked was that they didn't computer enhance any voices for the dogs, it was just a natural performance for them and it made the story just a little bit more believable. I know everyone keeps claiming that Cuba Gooding, Jr. ruined his career by making these films, but he must be doing something right, because at least he's still getting paid for these films.Ted is your typical Miami guy, he's a dentist, life is pretty decent for him, that is until he finds out that he's adopted. He finds out that his mother lived in Alaska, so he goes up there and finds out that his biological mother died recently, so he meets a girl, Barb, who tells him that his mother left him her house and top race winning dogs. A man, Jack, offers a lousy price for all of them, but he finds out that Jack is his father, and after hearing the story, Ted heads back to Miami. But he learns something different than Jack told him and heads back, but Jack is trapped in the mountains, and now Ted has to learn how to mush through the snow.Snow Dogs is predictable and a common story, but it's all good, it's a cute family film that has a few cute jokes. I just loved the scene where Ted first learns how to mush, and the dogs know how incompetent he is so they play a joke on him and race him through the town while he's taped to the sled. It was silly, but Cuba's look on his face was just priceless. This is a fun little movie that the whole family can enjoy, I recommend it. The rating on IMDb is very harsh, just ignore it, this is a fun film.6/10 "},{"Title":"Whoo!!!!! The Golden Age is almost over, and this movie reminded us of it!!!!!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In 2002, Disney was about to become a very bad company, showing really dumb shows and movies and all that. But before the change, in the early part of the year, Disney let us see some good old stuff one last time before it all went away. The first of this was Snow Dogs, which was released in early 2002. Some of the stars included Cuba Gooding Jr., who played Ted Brooks, the Miami dentist, and another star included Sisqo (who you might remember from The Thong Song!!!!!)Ted Brooks, one day, received a summons to see his father in a small town in Alaska. At this point, he was shocked because he didn't know all his life until that moment that he was adopted. While there, he was asked to take care of several racing dogs, which would be used for the annual dog sledding race that takes place in Alaska each year. He also met an old man, who was a professional dog sledder; he was lost, so Ted Brooks finally learned this sport so that he can save the man just in the nick of time.Snow Dogs was a terrific film. I have just watched this on Disney Channel a few days ago. This is a great movie, because soon then, Disney wouldn't be making classics like this anymore!!!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"Cute Cute","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Loved this movie.  Great scenery, a happy story line with a bit of a moral, cute cute dogs.  No wonder the younger set likes it.  And the ending is an all's well that ends well with everyone happy and satisfied.  Nothing wrong with that.  And, so what if they didn't do more scenes with the dogs doctored up to laugh and talk.  Everyone who knows happy huskys know they smile all the time in real life - it's part of their personality.  So, who needs the fake stuff?  Just those who are not in the know of the husky world.  "},{"Title":"5 mo old son loved it!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My 5 month old son apparently loved this movie! He squealed in delight at numerous scenes (the dogs) which made my enjoyment of the film that much more pleasurable -)I thought this movie was very uplifting & a great family-oriented film. I will definitely buy the DVD now that I have seen it. Wonderful scenery, beautiful dogs, & good acting, especially by Cuba Gooding, Jr. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie actually","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am a little stumped at the low rating, this movie is not that bad. It is no masterpiece in any shape and form, and I have certainly seen better films, but I have also seen worse. Also it is entertaining enough and has cute moments too. I do agree the story is predictable and nothing special, the script has its weak spots and the pacing is uneven being a little too draggy in the middle. But there is a lot to redeem it, namely the amazing scenery captured by the lovely cinematography. The soundtrack was a nice touch too, the direction is good and the acting is actually above decent. Cuba Gooding Jnr is a likable enough lead and James Coburn the great actor he was matches him wonderfully. The really cute snow dogs steal the show though, it could be said they are the film. Overall, definitely not a bad movie, exceptional no, entertaining yes. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This is a sad, sad day for Cuba fans.","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Snow Dogs I thought could be nowhere near as bad as people have been said . I mean I've heard comments saying this turned out to be the downfall for Cuba, it's laughable, I actually expected to be pleasantly surprised, unfortunately I was dead wrong. There is not one laugh to be had in this movie, not one, in fact it looks pretty cheap production wise, and this is a Disney film!. As I've noted many times before, I think Cuba is an underrated talent and not a fluke like many people have said, but his choice in projects are peculiar. It doesn't help that the storyline itself wasn't very interesting, it just felt like an awkward type family film to be honest, even if the dogs were cute. It started off with great potential, I was enjoying the whole dentist in Miami storyline, but once it went into colder territory it started to become embarrassing. Cuba is better than this, he's better than the countless DTV film's he's putting out now a days, he just needs a good script again.Performances. Cuba Gooding Jr. tries hard, but his comical skills are not up to par and he's nowhere near enough to bring it back to respectability. James Coburn looks embarrassing, I assumed he did it for some cash. Sisqó's character is heavily grating. Joanna Bacalso is pretty to look at, but she isn't that great in her role.Bottom line. Yes. Snow Dogs is as bad as they say it is. Kids will be bored, adults shouldn't even go near this film and Cuba fans will just be shaking their heads at how far he's fallen. Avoid at all costs.2/10 "},{"Title":"Good Entertaining Movie for Family.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Movie was surprisingly good. There were funny action scenes no sex, profanity or vulgarity. I watched it with my family at home. With parents and brother and friends who were around 25yrs old and niece 10yrs old and they liked it.I gave this movie 8 out of 10. I liked Cuba Goodings reactions even if they were a little over done, they were funny.I was surprised it was in fullscreen format (133 ratio) but I rather see this movie than live thru the awful HOSTEL movie.It was good to see James Colburn in a movie again. The Dog facial animation was kinda cool. It was done well where it didn't look too cartoonish. "}{"Title":"Not Winterdance but not bad...","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film has virtually NOTHING to do with Gary Paulsen's gritty book Winterdance The Fine Madness of Running the Iditarod though he is credited with suggesting the idea for the movie. Essentially it's an amusing fish-out-of-water tale about a Miami dentist (Cuba Gooding Jr.) who inherits an Alaskan dogsled team, complicated by the fact he really doesn't like dogs. The filmmakers have relied heavily on the sunny persona of Gooding and a great deal of physical comedy for audience appeal. There are also solid support from grizzled screen veteran James Coburn and the ever-elegant Nichelle Nichols of Star Trek fame.  I enjoyed the movie & so did most of the kids I saw in the theater.  Don't know what that says about my taste in movies...One caveat if you are severely allergic to pseudo-singer Michael Bolton, you might break out in a Time, Love and Tenderness rash! "},{"Title":"Better Than I Thought","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I saw the preview of this movie-(On November 3, 2001)I knew it would be another Disney comedy that the company just threw together and it would be something like Flubber-(Robin Williams) and Cool Runnings-(John Candy). But, I was wrong, this movie was a work of art. Now the only problem I had with it was, it really wasn't that funny, I mean yeah there was some funny moments in it where I even chuckled but it's not one of those laugh-out-loud comedys that I like. What I'm talking about is a movie to where a laugh out loud till I cry and disturb the people in front of me, now that's what I call a comedy. Laugh-out-loud movies like Rush Hour-(Jackie Chan) or Mouse Hunt-(Nathan Lane) and Bandits-(Bruce Willis)- which I thought was the funniest movie ever made. Now this movie was nothing like a laugh-out-movie but there was two reasons why I loved it. The first was the dogs, right when you see them you fall in love with them, and second was the story. The story was great, I thought it would be guy falls in love with dream girl, and guy finishes first in the dog-sleding race, pretty pratictable you say, well it was nothing like that, the story is a great one which makes you want to know more about each character. If you want to see a great movie with a great story go see Snow Dogs, but if you want to see a laugh-out-loud comedy then still go see this, but just know that there might have been a better comedy at the Box Office. 9/10 James Coburn did a great job as ThunderJack and this is one of Cuba Gooding Jr.'s best movies yet! "},{"Title":"Good dogs.  Good, good dogs.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First of all, those of you who saw the talking dogs in the trailer and feared that this was going to be just another talking-animal movie can lay your fears to rest.  The dogs talk only in ONE scene, and it's a dream sequence.  The rest of the time, with the exception of a few shots where Demon gets a little help from Jim Henson's Creature Shop, the dogs are just dogs.  And they are absolutely BEAUTIFUL creatures.  You will love them the moment you set eyes on them.Cuba Gooding, Jr. is delightful to watch in this role, and proves himself to be a great comic actor as well as a dramatic one.  James Coburn is also good as Thunder Jack, and the scenes where he and Gooding argue are fun.  Those two work well together.  M. Emmet Walsh and Sisqo are hilarious in their supporting roles, and it's nice to see Nichelle Nichols in a non-Star Trek setting.Director Brian Levant and the screenwriters have included a lot of physical comedy, but it's FUNNY physical comedy, not gross-out physical comedy. And most of this is set against the Canadian wilderness (standing in for Alaska), beautifully photographed by Thomas Ackerman. Add to this a serviceable score by John Debney and you have a great film for all ages, Gooding and Coburn's funniest, and Levant's best. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a great movie, its fun and entertaining. I don't know why the ratings are so low, this movie definitely deserves to be rated higher. its not the best movie is its enjoyable. Snow dogs is about a Miami dentist Ted(Cuba Gooding JR) who travels to Alaska when notified of his biological mother's death. He finds love, a father and ownership of a pack of head strong sled dogs. I would define this movie as an entertaining, several laugh comedy, worth adding to your viewing list.Its cool how he sleighs with the dogs, all the dogs look neat and its works out nicely. I like the part when Ted first does to Alaska then he meets James and James tells him about his dogs. Then James gives Ted a home and Ted goes in it, so when he goes in it, he's get a little surprise from all of James' dogs. It was sick how they all just popped up and attacked him. The ending of this movie was great.Id highly recommend this movie "},{"Title":"Clean and funny family movie.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I haven't laugh that much in a long time. Cuba Gooding Jr.is an excellent actor.  All the actors and actresses were great. This movie showed the beauty of Alaska.  This movie showed how a lot of people live, not because they are poor, but they choose to live a care free and simple life.  Dog mushing is not only a sport, but sometimes it is the only transportation to get from place to place.  People in Alaska are wonderful folks. We need more clean wholesome movies like this one.  I would recommend this movie to anyone to view.  "},{"Title":"Some Parents May Be Surprised (Unhappily). Tough.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a fun movie with Cuba Gooding, Jr. and James Coburn vying for scene stealing credit.  The dogs are beautiful and the real canines can't be told apart from the animatronic ones (at least not by me).I saw the film with my twelve-and-a half year old boy in a crowded theater.  Most of the kids were much younger than mine.  All seemed to love the film.  As well they should have.What I particularly liked was the fact that this film, aimed primarily at pre-teen kids, told without apology or moralizing a story that features premarital, interracial sex with a resultant pregnancy AND surrender of a baby for adoption.  Of course most young kids would have little or no reason to wonder about what kind of relationship brought a black Miami dentist to the icebound interior of Alaska in search of his roots. That's great kudos to the director, screenwriter and cast.  But methinks some parents are going to be unhappy.  Too bad the family values spelled out in Snow Dogs are decent, caring and free from prejudice.  Just what kids ought to see without explanation or excuse.  "},{"Title":"Insert dog pun of choice here","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When he is served with a notice to attend the will reading of his mother, dentist Ted Brooks is surprised as his mother is standing beside him at the time. It is that moment that he learns he is adopted and that his real mother lived in Alaska. Travelling up to her remote village with the lawyer-cum-pilot George Murphy, Ted finds he has inherited her possessions including her cabin and all the contents. Planning to just sell the lot, Ted is shocked to find a pack of huskies in the cabin. Waitress Barb hopes he will stay for a while but he plans to still sell the lot &#150; and only stops when she tells him who his father is; none other than the imposing and white Thunder Jack Johnson.Even before I watched this film I had the urge to throw out bad puns on the word dog &#150; this urge wasn't helped by my recent viewing of Cuba's Boat Trip. However I tried not to prejudge this, but I must admit a certain mix of smug satisfaction and wasted time in finding out that my fears were correct. With the thinnest of plots, this film mainly gets by on city boy in the snow gags that sees Ted being chased by anything in Alaska that could chase you &#150; bears, dogs, women, you name it. This never really made me laugh at any point which left me with an uncomfortable amount of time to look at the characters and the plot. This knackered the film totally because these are areas that should have been covered up &#150; not exposed. The plot itself is weak in regards the motivations and characters and by the time a small group of dogs drag the dead weight of two men and a sledge up a sheer drop, I had stopped being disappointed by it.The characters needed to be strong to carry the family issues in the story but they are as thin as paper and just as bland. I didn't care for any of them and was less than interested in their problems and interactions. I know it was a Disney film but I'm sure even children will come out of it saying was I meant to be emotionally involved with this adopted son and his distant father? &#150; well, maybe not but you know what I'm trying to say. Gooding Jnr. Need I say any more or do you know where I'm going with this? God love him he tries hard and he puts in more welly than the material deserves. Doesn't mean he is any good but gosh does he want to please everyone. Coburn should have known better and I hope he got well paid for this nonsense. Nichols is a strange find but at least Sisqo is limited to more or less a cameo. Walsh and Doyle-Murray are wasted but Bacalso has the hardest job. With no time and no realism she has to fall for Cuba and in the end she just suddenly does it &#150; she is a beautiful woman but he has so much against her that she cannot be more than just a cute support woman.Overall this is a poor film that maybe has enough motion and people falling down to distract children but god help any adult that tries to get involved in either the comedy or the characters. Both are basic and badly done &#150; I laughed once (at a man being hit by ice, god help me) and could have cared less about the simple relationship problems of the cardboard cutouts on my screen. Cuba Gooding Jnr yet again proves that Oscar was an one off with a film that I wouldn't even recommend to children in case it stunts their emotional growth. "},{"Title":"A fun film for the whole family!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Snow Dogs is a treat for the whole family.  A delightful movie directed by Brian Levant, whose previous family movies he directed were The Flintstones, the prequel The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas, Problem Child 2, Beethoven, and Jingle All The Way.  I love his movies, but the critics and audiences sure don't.  I enjoy all of his movies.  And Snow Dogs was great.  But, the only disappointing thing about this movie was that in the previews, you can hear the dogs talk, but, in the movie, the dogs only talk in that scene.  But, other than that, this movie is a delight.  So, take your kids and go see Snow Dogs.  A+  ****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13 "},{"Title":"A good film for the family.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cuba Gooding Jr. is a dentist who finds out, that he is adopted and his real mother lived in Alaska. He did not like dogs, but had to learn to like them when the mother left it in the will. The dogs are used for mushing the snow shield in a race. Will he learn to live in Alaska or back home to Miami? It is worth to see the dogs in this movie. "},{"Title":"Another lame Disney comedy--WOW!  What a surprise!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I wasn't expecting anything extraordinary when entering the theater to see Snow Dogs.  Anyone who has seen The Princess Diaries, Operation Dumbo Drop and Jungle 2 Jungle should know by now--Disney usually sucks at making comedies!  There are few exceptions like The Santa Clause and the underrated remake of That Darn Cat, but that's not gonna change my opinion of Disney altogether.  The producers of Disney should really stick to animation.  That's what they're good at. One slight motivation for seeing this movie was Cuba Gooding, Jr.  But though he's a terrific actor, even he could make a clunker--has anyone seen Chill Factor?  It happens to the greatest of actors.  Every once in a while a great actor wants to take a recess from serious drama and do either a broad comedy or a B-grade action flick.  Cuba has done both.  Serious actors always want to show their audiences that they CAN loosen up and they CAN be goofy and uninhibited when they want to be.  As expected, the humor in this movie is totally lame and utterly predictable.  Gooding hams it up to the extreme in his most over-the-top performance up-to-date, but there really is no other way to perform this sort of comedy.  Let me see  Cuba's (character) never mushed a team of sled dogs before, living in Miami all his life.  Are we supposed to find it hilarious when he gets dragged across the snow by the dogs over and over again?  Geez, we didn't expect that to happen!  In the back of the theater, a kid--probably five or six years old--kept laughing hysterically whenever that would happen, but that's the point.  If you're over the age of 6--this is not funny!There are assorted gags here and there that worked.  For example, we find out that Cuba's father is actually the big, brawny, white sled team owner who people steer away from whenever he approaches and is nicknamed Thunder Jack (James Coburn).  In one scene, Cuba spots him in a store and tells the clerk, He's my Dad.  Don't you see the resemblance?  The chemistry between Gooding and Coburn is wonderful.  And in another scene, Cuba is feeding the dogs a mish-mash of all sorts of organs from different animals called slump.  He comments, In Miami, we call this hot dogs. Snow Dogs is not painstaking to watch and is somewhat harmless, but it's entirely lame and predictable.  The kind of film you watch and say, Why even bother?  If there's anything the movie is notable for, it's the first film to feature a cameo by Michael Bolton.  What happened?  Vanilla Ice's phone was busy?  I have to say, that Alaskan woman who plays Gooding's love interest is completely hot!  God, she's a fox!  So guys, if you do have to sit through this movie--especially you fathers out there--at least you have some great eye candy!  My score  5 (out of 10)       "}{"Title":"Totally Cool","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film is awesome i was watching it Yesterday and the main outline a Star Dentist from Miami has suddenly inherited a Dog Sledding team. He goes to Tolketna to learn the trade or lose them to a crusty Eskimo like man. A good story of finding the truth of his roots with a good side story love life between the owner of the local bar and Miami dentist Ted brooks. the good antics of dog Demon is also good with his fellow dogs. Some comedy action too such as when Ted Tries to get demon with the other dogs and he get his but bitten. Then during the arctic challenge Ted braves the elements to save his father.The good music selection that kicks in at the end is also nice Michael Boltons Time love and tenderness and always loving you are quite good. a compact 99 minute film is good for both children and Adults alike. quite hilarious. "},{"Title":"coming to the rescue in the wilderness","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" here comes another dog film with a great cast Cuba gooding Jr James Coburn this Disney film is funny as hell and make no bones about it the family will love this xmas film as Ted brooks finds out he has a father he didn't know he had in Alaska and with a inheritance to be got he goes there from Miami where his dental practice is but with 7 Siberian huskies and a border collie and discovery many roots in the wilderness as Ted life goes from a good life to a dogs life Ted vows to rise to the occasion and see how his inheritance totally out of his comfort zone in all the elements like a fish out of water with outrageous funny moments in this movie like sledding a car he faces challenges that he never dreamed of rescuing intimidating grumpy thunder jack from a blizzard ,thin ice with a artic challenge sled dog that's happens with Ted realizing what happens can he do the unthinkable and sled in time for a matter of life of death at 1hr35mins this film is not to long but everyone will enjoy "},{"Title":"Well I liked this movie despite its low rating","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Snow Dogs stars Rat Race's Cuba Gooding Jr as a Miami dentist who discovers that he is actually adopted and is left a will that requires him to look after husky dogs that his real mom left him. Turns out his father is Thunder Jack(played by the late James Coburn)who at first doesn't see eye to eye with his own biological son and the two later become close. The film has some nice backgrounds,and nice dogs that were also in the 2006 film Eight Below opposite the late Paul Walker. I was always a lover for animals especially dogs so it was a real feel good movie. Ignore the critics on this one and see it for yourself. 8/10Funny movie and keep an eye out for Micheal Bolton(who also has two songs in the film as himself),he appears in a dream sequence where Cuba Gooding Jr falls for a waitress in Alaska.Perfect film to watch this Christmas.Glad I got it on DVD a week ago as I have seen it several times on TV, "},{"Title":"Time, Love & Tenderness.","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've been a fan of this film since I can recall. I remember watching Snow Dogs when I was younger and just absolutely adoring it. That feeling has stayed with me as I've grown up I'll always throw this film on if am feeling abit down. There's so many elements to it that I enjoy. It's got a really fantastic cast, Cuba Gooding plays a great character, you can't help but love Thunder Jack (James Coburn) even Sisqó plays a really funny character and of course you can't help but adore the snow dogs! Demon & Nana especially. Apart from the cast being great the scenery and the whole story behind it is just really cute the scene were Barb and Ted are howling at the moon really is adorable. Not only that the film does make you laugh at times and seeing the tender side to Thunder Jack at the end is really sweet! Not only that the soundtrack is really good especially the end song 'time, love & tenderness' so catchy!! Overall the film is good and a nice one for the family. "},{"Title":"Cozy, pleasant movie.","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was one of my favorites as a kid. I really, really loved it. Thought it had this oddly cozy feel to it, the kind of movie you watch on a rainy day you know.So yeah, for some reason, today I picked it up again to re-watch it. It was still a nice, pleasant enough movie. I know it's not anything extraordinary or amazing. It's not a masterpiece. But I still really like like it (partly because of nostalgia, I guess). Still think it's a sweet, feel good movie.Some bad jokes adults won't really find funny and the plot is very simple. The surroundings are are beautiful and the acting is just fine too.I probably wouldn't have enjoyed it as much as I did if I hadn't watched it as a child, but I'd still recommend it to kids, especially if they like dogs. "},{"Title":"Decent Family Film!","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Snow Dogs is a pretty decent film but not the greatest. I seen better movies associated with sled dogs such as Eight Below and maybe Iron Will. I probably would have never watch his but my parents brought the VHS film when it came out so I was forced to watch it with the family. Years later, I decided to watch it again and see for myself it was good as I remembered. My opinion is the same as I first saw it.This is about some Miami dentist who inherited a pack of sled dogs. He heads up to Alaska in order to learn what sledding is all about.The acting is okay. The only big name actor here is Cuba Gooding Jr. I though James Coburn was great though.Overall, this is a decent family film. I probably will not watch this film again for awhile. But I think kids will like this. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Finally a Disney Favorite on DVD!!!","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As usual Disney is releasing a true 5-star Vault-Disney style family movie and releasing a poorly transfered, VHS rental quality, full screen format DVD. If you must have this movie, please save your money and buy the VHS version. Disney does not give a you-know-what about what the consumer wants. AVOID THIS DVD if you can. Apparently the dullards in the Disney marketing department represent Disney's greedy corporate policy of cheat the consumer. I am so happy that Disney has finally released Snowballs on DVD! This is a great family movie that I've adored my entire life. The story is about a family man, John Baxter (played by Fred Macmurray), who inherits a slew of huskies from an uncle. He quits his job and moves his family to the snow covered hills of Colorado where The Grand Imperial Hotel is located. However, the Grand Imperial isn't as grand as he had imagined, and Baxter decides that with a bank loan, he'll change the hotel into a ski lodge. The ruthless bank manager wants the hotel for his own greedy purposes, and this leaves Baxter to struggle to make his ski lodge dreams a reality. This movie is full of laughs thanks to the whit of Pickens, Donna Morgan, Nancy Melvsen, Johnny Whitaker, and an adorable St. Bernard dog that will have you re-winding the DVD to see those precious expressions over and over. Now, why just 4 stars out of a possible 5? They DVD is greatly appreciated, but the quality is a bit lacking. Once again, like Disney's DVD release of Candleshoe (1977) One of Kim Jong-Il's favorites, snowballs is full-screen format. Also, it appears the the picture quality isn't as crisp as most DVD releases. It looks as if the DVD was directly copied from an original film reel. As you watch the opening credits, you'll see the specks of dust and scratches that are common when watching movies in theaters, but not on DVD. Also, there aren't any Bonus Features!! Boooooo!!! Other than those little flaws, the DVD would make a great addition to a Disney DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Come on, it's not that bad","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Typical good feelings movie, Disney-style. As is, i have seen worse, even a LOT worse. Acting is decent, plot makes sense (more or less), gags are average funny and not terribly re-heated, plus the snow scenes are cute. Ok, it's not White Fang, so what? Family fun you expect, family fun you have. That's it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, several laugh comedy","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Very entertaining story of a Miami dentist who travels to Alaska when notified of biological mother's death. He finds love, a father and ownership of a pack of head strong sled dogs. I would define as an entertaining, several laugh comedy, worth adding to your viewing list.  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As a 25 year old, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, and I'd recommend it to both parents and kiddies. Cuba Gooding Jr. is a natural when it comes to comedy, and I was laughing out loud at his performance through the entire movie. And, yes, it has a story to it. You might even get the sniffles when you watch.The only problem I had with this film was the under-usage of Graham Green. He has maybe three scenes in the entire film, and says very little in all of them.Nonetheless, it's a cute movie, and I'd recommend it to anyone who likes animal movies. "}{"Title":"Cuba makes this film","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was a fairly good Disney film, mainly because of Cuba Gooding. He has some funny lines as the Miami dentist who visits Alaska and inherits some dogs. The landscape is beautiful throughout the movie. (SLIGHT SPOILERS) What I didn't like is how he survives all these impossible situations, such as running from a bear. And sliding down hills while missing all the trees. And then at the end when the dogs pull the sled up when its dangling over a cliff. All of that is silly. I wish they would have made that more realistic because if someone was in that situation, they would have been killed.When he first encounters the dogs in the house, that is very funny because I could picture that happening. And it is nice to see a comedy for the kids every now and then.FINAL VERDICT  Cute dogs, some funny moments, a worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Great family film.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My whole family (ranging in ages from 22 to 84 years old) enjoyed Snow Dogs very much.   It's a movie you don't mind seeing over and over again.  It gives you a sense of the simple pleasures in life is really what's important.  Good clean family movie that we don't get enough of these days. I sure don't understand why this movie got such a low rating.  It's rated high on my list. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Children's Movie","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My children and I enjoyed Snow Dogs very much! Cuba Gooding, again, shows his versatility as an actor as Dr Ted Brooks. It is very difficult to produce quality entertainment that is suitable for children and I think this movie does a good job. A lot of today's children's movies are geared for parents, not kids. They offer one liners or veiled suggestive remarks that pass right over the little ones heads. So why are they there? To keep the parents coming back. There was only one instance in the entire movie when I heard a questionable remark. (And my son picked up on nan-nookie right away.) But over all, it was positive and up lifting. To critics I would say, This is a children's movie! Repeat that to yourself ten times! Something that will keep an adult on the edge of their seat probably shouldn't have children viewing it anyway. "},{"Title":"Shrek it ain't, but OK through young eyes *SPOILERS*","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is no 'Shrek', ie. if you're looking for a kids film that you can appreciate wholly and solely at an adult level, forget it.  My 30-something girlfriend and I saw 'Shrek' on our own and enjoyed it thoroughly, as I did again when watching it with my two kids.  I loved 'Monsters Inc.' to bits as well.'Snow Dogs' is, however, best enjoyed vicariously through the delight of young peeps, as the humour is based on pretty routine slap-stick and cute, furry animals.  And on that level, I have to go with the ratings of my two very young critics and give it two thumbs up.There was just one bit that bemused me (cue the *SPOILER*) I knew just one thing about this film prior to entering the cinema and that was it had dogs that talked, a la 'Cats and Dogs'.  The trailers seemed to trade on this aspect.  However, the talking dogs routine accounts for 30 seconds (if that) of the entire film, which was disappointing for those banking on it.On the whole, I'd recommend it as a good, enjoyable family film and echo the sentiments about the lack of racy, sailor-blushing language if that's important in your selection. "},{"Title":"VERY Pleasantly Surprised.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   I have to say I had no desire what so ever to see this ilm until we had to watch it in a class in church because of a over lieing moral. But once I got to watching this film I really enjoyed it! I mean its not brilliant comedy, but its pretty funny at moments, I guess i loved so much how well the story carried along. I am not really sure, but I do reccomend this film to anyone! "},{"Title":"Nice Movie","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A nice and pleasant comedy for children or adults to enjoy. A story of a man from sunny Miami in search of his biological past after learning he has been adopted. His search takes him out of his element and to Alaska where he meets a woman named Barb (who is THE hottest thing in Alaska...) who helps him in his quest. On a personal note after meeting Barb, I would have forgotten all about trying to find my parents... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Family Film","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  OK, so the plot is thin and the sub-plots are fairly pointless.  But I still loved this flick.  It featured good performances all around, especially from Cuba Gooding, Jr., and James Coburn.  Gooding had a very natural style to his performance and James Coburn had a commanding presence through much of the film as Thunder Jack, the man who has been struck by thunder (?) . . . twice.  The story was not plotted out very well and some scenes seem almost random, especially during the first 45 minutes.  There is nothing new in this film, nothing that hasn't been seen before with better writing.  So why did I like it so much?  Your guess is as good as mine. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I've seen in a long time. I took my 2 year old daughter to see it & she insisted after 1 hour that she wanted to leave because it was boring & to be honest I have to agree 100%. The humour in this film seems to rely on the star shouting a lot & falling over on the ice which didn't even get more than a smirk from the cinema which was half full of young kids.Is James Coburn so short of work these days that he has to sign up for dross like this ?Keith "},{"Title":"No Crass Language!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One thing that really caught my attention with this movie is the lack of crass/crude language.  Rather than Oh my God, - you'd here Oh my gosh! I highly recommend this movie to anyone who is seeking a great comedy/adventure movie with clean language throughout! "},{"Title":"Some of Disney's BEST work! A BIG, FAT 10++!!!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is some of Disney's BEST work, no doubt! I would like to see Hollywood ACTUALLY use Alaska in film, but British Columbia is a very convincing substitute. I think only those that live or have been to Alaska will notice the difference.For the nay-saying crowd; you can't expect perfection from the fam-camp category. Put this movie it perspective with it's intent and it is truely wonderful. I would call this movie nearly perfect anyway! The only truely out-of-place cast-member was Nichelle Nicholes, and ONLY because she's got more of an elegent style to her than her character.Those that say content was more adult than it should have been; you need to step up and realize that that interracial coupling and adoption are normal and part of life, and ALWAYS HAVE BEEN (This is not new stuff people). This movie is a good example for children who actually live in those regimes. It shows them they can focus on the good of their situations, rather than the bad.And finally to those who say this movie is unrealistic; well, this is the most realistic rendition of Alaska, in film, I've seen in years. My town in Alaska is actually smaller than the one in the movie. We do not even have a store. The nearest gas station is 25 miles away. People are different, yet friendly, nice, and almost family-like! Yes, we DO have sled dogs here! They do not stay inside the owners homes though, but ARE treated like family members.So for those stuffy people who didn't like this movie, either loosen up and enjoy life a little, or go back to your Chocolate and your other dry movies and stop criticizing the good FAMILY fun this world needs a lot more of! Oh! And serious kudo's to Joanna Bacalso. I've never seen her before, but she was simply wonderful and very natural. For those that don't believe such beauty is indigenous to Alaska, GO SEE FOR YOURSELF. Joanna almost had me thinking she was native Aleute.TEN THUMBS UP! (5 people in my family!) "}{"Title":"A good story buried beneath the drek","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As soon as I saw the previews for this movie, I was convinced it was going to be an absolutely horrid film and planned on never seeing it.  However, when relatives came over and insisted we watch it, I had no choice and prepared for cinematic horror.What I got was a bad movie that had a good movie trying to fight it's way out.  Yes, there's some rather bad comedy throughout the film.  But underneath the terrible comedy is a story about finding oneself that really should have been the focus of the movie.  When the movie dropped the more ridiculous fish out of water gags it actually had an interesting story going, if not ungodly predictable.As for performances, I have a message for Hollywood in reference to comedic black actors-Stop having them scream out every single line!  It's really annoying to hear Cuba Gooding Jr. shrieking out the majority of his funny lines.  James Coburn puts in a good performance as Thunder Jack, and I was actually rooting for him during the film.It's a movie that should have gone back for a rewrite to excise the cheap humor and replace it with more of the dramatic elements that made it more interesting.  The kids will love it, it's got an abundance of cute dogs in it.  Good for a rent. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched the whole thing...","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was prepared for another lame, formulaic Disney family flic. Unbelievable characters, excrutiating dialog, ridiculous animal action, etc.Yes, it had silly fall off the dogsled and get dragged humour but it was suprisingly entertaining.  However I somehow doubt a woman as good-looking as Joanna Bacalso would be a bartender in a wilderness one-dog town.And for all those reviewers who talk about it being a commercial for Alaska... Sorry, it was filmed near Banff, Alberta, Canada in a picturesque place called Canmore, same place as the film Mystery, Alaska was shot. "},{"Title":"Laughed My Butt Off!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I found this movie very hilarious, I bought it on DVD, and I had never seen it before, but I laughed throughout the entire movie. Cuba Gooding Jr. was excellent in this movie! I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who asked me if it is worth watching, I would tell them to go ahead and buy it, it is cheaper than renting it, it is worth the money buying it!! "},{"Title":"Okay, though the previews lied","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First off, disregard all of the previews you have seen for SD. You know, the one which show the huskies laughing it up on a beach? *Shakes head* No, it is not indicative of the movie at all. The dogs do not talk, or laugh, though they do have personalities in the movie.Cuba Gooding Jr. plays a sun-loving dentist in Florida who finds out he is adopted when his biological mother dies in Alaska. After trekking there to check out what she's left him, he finds she left him--well, snow dogs! Huskies that she owned. The plot is based off of this, with Cuba finding out who his dad is, having to rescue his dad, finding his true love, and all that good stuff.This movie was okay, but it played like a made for TV movie. At times it seemed as if the only reason it wasn't a Disney Channel Friday night movie is because of Cuba, who's probably the best actor in the whole thing. As a children's movie, it succeedes--it's got a likeable protagonist, cute doggies, and some sequences I'm sure little kids find funny. There's some stuff in there for adults, but not enough to keep them intrigued throughout the whole movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful family movie for all!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A great movie for the whole family!  There is something here for all ages. The story line is cute and witty.  I was also thrilled that Disney did not leave kids thinking that they needed to go out and have a Husky for themselves.  Being a dog trainer, I enjoyed the funny spin Disney put on this breed's personality. Great movie with a nice ending.  "},{"Title":"Good Family Entertainment","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I realized I was starting to watch a Disney film, I almost cut out. But we decided to give it 15 minutes, and it got us hooked. Disney won't let some of their clichés die, like tacky musical scores, animals that display human traits, and scenarios built far more for emotional effect than realism. But they have managed to move their filmmaking more toward their goal of making films the whole family can enjoy.Snow Dogs is a solid film for a movie that is designed to be no more or less than entertaining. It has no real story to tell, though it tries to be a little preachy about what family is. It's an adventure film with doses of humor and romance tossed in. It's about a Florida dentist who inherits an Alaskan cabin and a some prize sled dogs his mother owned and raced. During his journey to clear up the estate he finds his father, starts a romance, and discovers who he is. In between there are jokes and some contrived but sometimes exciting action scenes. A fairly good film compared to a lot of average Hollywood schlock.More than anything Snow Dogs is a film with all Disney's experience thrown behind making you care about the characters and becoming emotionally affected when they ultimately prevail. There's conflict but, gosh darnit, everyone is just wonderful and everyone loves everyone at the end of the day, and it's just so so so SWELL!! "},{"Title":"Best comedy I've seen in years.  Truly enjoyable.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We saw this two weeks ago and I never laughed so hard.  I could hardly get my breath.  This was our reaction throughout the entire movie.  It wasn't boring or too silly. The movie was fast pace and the characters were so perfect for each part.  I was afraid there were be a lot of animation but there was only one scene. A great escape! "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled by the fluff","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I can't believe other reviewers called this a Good Family Film. It seems Disney can no longer make movies where someone throws up on someone, someone gets peed on or somebody passes gas audibly. I guess this is what it now takes to keep the baby boomers kids entertained. Scatological references and potty humor now adorn so many so-called Kids movies and Disney has bought right into it. This is one video I won't be adding to my collection. Yes there are some cute parts, but I won't be fooled by them. Some scenes are just incredibly far-fetched and one set of dialog is slightly racist sounding. If it were reversed, it would be called racist. It seems Disney's definition of family film and my definition of family film now differ. Tomasina, Jungle Book, Snow White where are you?? "},{"Title":"The Cuba Gooding Miscast Crisis","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Here's a paradox How does an Academy Award winning actor from Jerry Maguire get stuck into a Disney Kid Flick with talking dogs? Yes, Cuba Gooding Jr. is back, from a gunner from Pearl Harbor to... well, a dentist from the warm country to Alaska. He inherits talking dogs. That's right, talking dogs. So if the opening scene consists of a kid throwing up from a bucket's point of view, that's usually rock bottom. But no, Snow Dogs is a jackhammer, digging deeper. It's going to be a very chilly reception.So, here goes the usual. The plot is a dentist who inherits dogs and has to prevent another guy from getting the dogs. How do the dogs show their appreciation? They bite his underwear while he's still wearing them.So here's the question When did it go wrong? Oh, yeah, when someone wrote the script. The humor can't even make anyone with half a brain chuckle, mostly because it's something seen in a Looney Toons short. And, as for the acting, let's just leave it at the fact that Cuba Gooding Jr. smiles too much, even in sad times. We get it, he's a dentist.Snow Dogs is so poorly done, they might as well put it in the Disney Channel, along with the Luck of the Irish. Either way, it achieves the same audience none at all. The direction, script and acting go to the dogs, an the final movie itself should be put on ice. That is unless, you want to see a movie version of the limbo. How low can you go? "},{"Title":"Not bad, I enjoyed it.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Snow Dogs is a typical Disney Film which is really designed for kids.  The film kept with that and I could not find anything in it that would give reason not to let a child see it.  I saw this one with my son and both of us enjoyed it.  I have to admit, this is the first film I have seen Cuba Gooding in in which he is just a normal guy.  He is not the hero that is out to make equal rights for everyone.  I do like some of those films too but this one he is just a normal person trying to get some answers about his true identity.  I liked that.The story line was very predictable and so was some of the comedy.  However, it was presented in a way that kept the film entertaining.  I found myself laughing several times with this one.  If the plot had been more original, it would likely have been a better film.  However, I don't think that was what the director was looking for.  I think he was just looking to make an entertaining film.  I think that is just what he did.Over all, pretty good, (8 out of 10). "}{"Title":"Disney formula at work again","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Start with one set-in-his-ways something's-missing-in-his-life-but-he-can't-see-it hero, add a heart-in-the-right-place love interest, mix with a a crusty-but-loveable old timer and finish off with banter-loving sidekick and you have yet another formulaic Disney offering.  Fortunately, the dogs don't talk (not really)and the decision to use CGI to give them knowing glances to each other was really cute.Nothing original here(though you got to love the traditional gatorade celebration--a la Alaska--the race winner receives), just safe everything-will-turn-out-all-right fare.  Yawn. "},{"Title":"Great for kids... but for adults????","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you take into account that it is a Disney movie, you can find it bearable as an adult.  Personnaly, I like any movie that has a good story line, and this one does.  But that is expected with Disney.Cuba Gooding and Coburn are good and make the movie.  I just felt that the story fell on the predictable side and the slapstick took a little away from the story.On the whole it was a watchable movie.  If the kids want to go, you can survive going with them. "},{"Title":"Snow Dogs is snow good!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw Disney's newest hit on the same day I saw Black Hawk Down.  And let me tell you, Black Hawk Down doesn't compare!  In this children's version of The Shipping News, Cuba Gooding Jr. plays Ted, a famous Miami dentist (don't ask me why dentists are famous) who finds that he's been adopted and travels back to his biological parents' homeland of Alaska to find himself.  While there he stumbles upon his deceased mother's pack of mush dogs and his true father, the grizzly James Colburn as Thunder Jack. In a stir fry-type mix of good-for-the-body physical comedy and spicy sex appeal, Gooding gives a performance that I believe is Oscar-worthy.  And Colburn's character development is one of the most believable I've seen all year!  Not to mention, Michael Bolton's cameo was purely moving!  While some may say this movie failed in every way to live up to Pulsen's Winterdance, I say just the opposite  Gary, Snow Dogs put your good-for-nothing book to pure shame.  Now go cry in the corner of your damn igloo!  Let me just say this  I smell Oscar buzz, big time!  Snow Dogs is a great movie that will mush your heart with delight!  Two paws way up! "},{"Title":"refreshing and a clean movie","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love Cuba Gooding and I thought he was perfect for this part.  I don't have anymore to say than I really (!!!) enjoyed this movie.  It had enough chuckles in it and even the slow parts didn't bother me.  I would love more cute movies such as this one!  "},{"Title":"Where are the talking dogs?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went to see Snow Dogs after seeing the trailer because it looked like a cute movie.  The commercial shows the dogs talking.  To my supprise there was only one scene in the movie where the dogs spoke (the scene from the trailer).  Don't get me wrong, it was a cute movie but not what I expected. The commercials are very misleading. "},{"Title":"A local dentist from Miami inherits a team of sled dogs from his biological mother.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A local dentist from Miami inherits a team of sled dogs from his biological mother, who died recently. Ted Brooks, the dentist, has never known he was adopted. One day he receives a letter from Alaska saying he inherited things from the recently dead mother he has never known. In Alaska, he must learn to ride the team and try not to get killed by the head of the dog group, Demon. In general, I find the movie very funny. Although I liked it, their's one particular part near the end that really should not be shown to younger viewers, that way they would not be able to do that one thing to their own dog or even cat that could kill the animal and the child. If the parents decide to take their child to see this movie, I would strongly suggest that they talk with the child afterwards if they have an animal. "},{"Title":"Snow Dogs was hilariously entertaining!!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Snow Dogs was entertaining from the onset of the movie to the end. Everybody in the audience (including myself) were laughing almost non stop except that crucial scene when the sled and dogs almost fell from the cliff. Another scene was when James calls Cuba Son.  It was very touching. The chemistry was great in this movie and I'll see it again when the opportunity presents itself. "},{"Title":"Liked It Plenty","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Snow Dogs is the kind of movie that makes you glad they invented Happy Endings.  This movie has a happy ending for just about everybody, including the cute little doggies, and that's a Good Thing.  Usually when I go to a movie and the theatre is filled with children, I get a small identity crisis.  Not this time.  I went right along with all the squeals and awwwws as Snow Dogs put us through our emotional paces.  Is there feeling in this film?  Yes there is, especially if you like dogs.  Seeing Leutenant Uhura from Star Trek in a nice role didn't hurt either.  Mostly this is Cuba Gooding's movie, but I kept focusing on James Coburn, my old fav, with his lumpy fingers.  Gotta love him.Anyway this movie's message is, Be True To Yourself, and Take Up The Challenge.  It's a good theme, especially for a movie aimed at kids. I also really liked the editing, and pacing especially in the beginning of the film.  Everything happens to our hero the dentist, and we want to see what will happen to him next.  We aren't disappointed either.Snow Dogs portends of more good films to come from whoever made it; there's talent and especially a strong respect for the medium at work here.  You can't always say that about films like this, which is why I was so impressed by Snow Dogs. "},{"Title":"Back to the old family formula.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  SNOW DOGS reminded me of the old family Disney films of the 1970s (you know, the ones where Dean Jones was in most of them?).  The movie was completely predictable, but that didn't make it any less fun for me.  I've never read the book it was based off of, but as for the movie itself, my wife and I greatly enjoyed seeing it.  We could use more family films where the main purpose in going to see it is to be entertained and nothing more. "},{"Title":"A great family film!!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have never commented on a film before, but after reading some of the above cynical, snide so-called reviews- I have to put this out there for others who are thinking about seeing this new Disney movie. I will keep this short and to the point.My family ranges from ages 4-38, and we ALL enjoyed it immensely! The people in the theater were all laughing throughout!  Cuba Gooding was great at slapstick comedy!  His acting was believable and moved me to tears when he was talking to his father.There was something for everyone- and the dogs were cute and funny too. As for plot- there was plenty!  And the end was sweet!  Nichelle gave a warm and realistic portrayal of the cookie baking mama.The scenery was magnificant- from Florida to the white capped Northern Mountains.  I am not a Disney fan- bit I can not find fault with this film. Well worth the admission price on the entertainment scale. If I may be permitted to say- two thumbs up!  Wish there were more great feeling films out there like this one! "}{"Title":"Warm and Fuzzy Snow Dogs!!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Our whole family loved this film.  It was back to the old Disney live action film magic.  The dogs were fun, Cuba Gooding, jr. a great comedic actor, and James Coburne just a stitch as rough and gruff Thunder Jack. So nice to feel good about a film when leaving the theater. This film gets 4 stars for family fun!  A total 10! "},{"Title":"Cute but predictable","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My husband, 7 year old daughter, and I attended a sneak preview of this movie last night. It was a cute comedy, but predictable. Strong acting by Cuba Gooding Jr and James Coburn saved the movie from being totally worthless. If you're a dog lover, you will enjoy the beautiful animals in the film. How many ways can you make a learning to mush scene that is hysterically funny? Apparently at least three. "},{"Title":"A wonderful fun filled movie","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a  great film!  The casting is superb, and the script is brilliantly written.  It is a really fun movie for adults and kids alike.  So do yourself a favour and go see it!  I should also note that director Brian Levant is a genius!  I give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"What is wrong with you people..?","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was a great show. Excellent Sunday watch. Why has it been rated so low? Anyways, dog lovers, outdoors types, and Disney saps will eat this up. Perhaps one of the reasons I enjoyed this film is because I raised a Husky dog for 15 years. The behavior of these dogs brought back memories. I also find myself trapped in the city life and the lifestyle portrayed in the show is something I dream of. Cuba was excellent as usual, matter of fact all the actors and actresses did a first class job. I bet this was a fun movie to make. The scenery was fantastic. If you liked the movie 8 below, I'd bet you will like this one as well. Well done crew, I'd like to see a part two. "},{"Title":"no naked people, no dead dogs","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is most appreciated by certain groups of people. The first group is made up of the occupants of multiple big dog households. You will recognize your own behavior along with your dogs. The second group is made up of adoptive families. It's a wonderful movie to take an adopted child to. Cuba Gooding Jr. finds out he was adopted, and in the process, finds out how much his adoptive mother loves him, and learns that his biological parents loved him and each other and although they couldn't keep him, wanted more than anything to bring him into this world. This movie is also appreciated by people who are sick of naked people and dead dogs. Nobody gets naked, and none of the dogs die. "},{"Title":"Lots of mush - and great family fun","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The very best kids' films are just as enjoyable for parents as for their offspring, but they're rare (and mostly made by Pixar these days). Snow Dogs is not in this league but it is still pure knockabout fun for the little 'uns, with a good deal of mush thrown in - as in sentimentality AND dog racing. Parents will enjoy it because they're enjoying watching their kids enjoying it, if you see what I mean. My six-year-old daughter loved it for the novelty of seeing dogs pulling sleds over snow, and for the way Cuba Gooding happily clowns around on the ice. He is wonderful, as is James Coburn in one of his last roles, while the comely heroine is played by a former Miss Philippines. A satisfying kiddies' film and, as my 17-year-old son grudgingly pronounced, a lot better than Angelina bloody Ballerina. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, though not what I expected","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" SNOW DOGS, in my opinion, is not too bad, though it wasn't what I expected. When my mother and I saw this together, she thought that there would be more dog talk. Well, she turned out to be wrong. Still, I liked the dogs and the romance between Ted (Cuba Gooding Jr.) and Barb (Joanna Bacalso). The music was good, too. Before I wrap this up, I must make note of one particular thing. That thing is a special appearance by Michael Bolton. Now, in conclusion, if you're a die-hard Cuba Gooding Jr. or Michael Bolton fan, I strongly recommend this movie. I certainly hope you'll enjoy it, because I thought it wasn't too bad. "},{"Title":"Predictable and not very funny","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I missed the first 10 minutes of watching this and then it took me a while to work out if it was actually a drama or a comedy. The storyline is OK but predictable. This movie might have been better as a drama because the funny parts were not very funny. There was much too much falling down and sliding around in the snow which stopped being funny after 30 seconds. The Michael Bolton cameo is the funniest part. And that's saying something... James Coburn was good though, maybe a little bit type cast ;) Joanna Bacalso was nice to watch, I had never heard of her before but she was possibly the best thing about this movie. I definitely prefer Cuba Gooding Jr. as a serious actor. "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Good Film","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A balanced blend of humour, action and great scenery make this film a pleasant surprise to watch. I thought this would be another going nowhere movie but I was proved wrong.What a change to have a story behind the action too, the scene in which James Coburn finally admits to his long lost son that his is indeed proud of him. created one heck of a lump in my throat.Watch the film and I'll guarantee you will want to watch it again and perhaps again.By the way, this comes from someone who is crazy about special effect movies and who grew up on Ray Harryhausen, so don't think I'm biased to warm hearted films OK! "},{"Title":"Great film for kids!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" No spoilers here.I saw the movie because I own Huskys. At age 42 I took my 10 year old daughter to see it, and was pleasantly surprised as it reminded me of the great Disney films I saw as a kid. Clean, and wholesome, no profanity at all, and on the big screen the Alaskan scenery was literally breathtaking. I recommend this film for kids of any age. It's a great adventure film with suspense, comedy, and drama on a level that any kid will find capturing, and enjoyable. Those that don't like it may also have problems with something like Savage Sam, or Fantastic Journey. This film rises almost to the level of those, but falls a little short in comparison, and only a little. "}{"Title":"Okay, but Gooding and Coburn are better than this","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cuba Gooding Jr. and James Coburn are respected actors, so the best thing I can say about them in this movie is that they probably made it better than it was. It wasn't bad, but this was certainly not 'Northern Exposure'. I don't like dogs anyway, so I didn't have any special reason for watching. I just like Disney comedies.The adventure involving Gooding and Coburn made the movie a little more substantial, and it provided the inspirational theme that often goes along with the Disney name. I liked the physical comedy the best.Not much here to concern parents. Aside from the fact that someone had premarital sex years ago, and a few mild off-color jokes, this is family fare. "},{"Title":"Mush through the slush.","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Tell me it isn't so. Cuba Gooding Jr plays a Miami dentist that goes north to Alaska as he reluctantly inherits a dogsled team from the mother he never knew. Comedy family fare that isn't too much fun for anyone. Cuba, take the money and run! You would figure that maybe the dogs would be given personality...no not much. Redemption for this slushy clunker is James Coburn. He is hilarious. Also in the cast are Brian Doyle-Murray, M. Emmet Walsh and Nichole Nichols. The promo trailer is more entertaining. Sorry. "},{"Title":"a great disney movie","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i think that this is one of disney's better movies.  it has a great cast. cuba gooding jr.  is great in this movie.  It has a great story line and everything else.  James Coburn is great in this movie as well.  Him and Cuba are a great pair. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny in scenes but as usual disney has trouble making a real life flick...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I saw this in theatres with my friend and little brother I wasn't really impressed although I had a feeling it wouldn't make me laugh really hard I was surprise that it actually made me laugh in parts but my brother laughed his head off at scenes that weren't even humurous which was most of the movie. I sujest you only watch this if you are in a good mood. "},{"Title":"I can always judge a Disney film by how many tears I drop...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  So what's wrong with a little Disney formula?  I've been watching Disney films for the last twelve years (the age of my eldest daughter; I have three  12, 9 & 6) and sometimes my skin crawls at the thought of watching another Disney movie.  However, I once again went and thoroughly enjoyed Snow Dogs.  In this day, when most films, even family films, contain a PG rating, it's nice to be able to go and watch a film that can convey several good messages without the use of expletives or overrated slimy special effects that have that sickening sucking sound as a boot being pulled out of the muck.  As for these messages, there was the usual finding out who you are much like the Princess Diaries.  Adults may find this corny but it still works for adolescents who are just beginning this quest.  I can only allude to the other messages since I don't want to spoil the plot and the climax. I really liked the subtle message of inter-racial barriers being non-existent (not realistic but wouldn't it be nice), and of a mother's love being eternal and unconditional.As for the actors...I'm impressed with Cuba, the new black man of slapstick comedy.  Isn't it ironic that he should be chased by a troupe of over 40 Lucy's in Rat Race.  And Nichelle Nichols, she is the embodiment of class. I grew up with her gracing the black and white TV screen as Lieutenant Uhura (my father was too frugal to buy a colour TV set) and she was probably my first and for a long time, only black, let alone black female, role model. For a white middle-aged male who grew up in a all-white Northern Ontario town, I credit her alone with my personal anti-racial dogma. It is so wonderful to see her beauty and elegance grace the screen once more.  She will always exude class.  The rest of the cast (other than Joanna B) was frightening and not that far-fetched.  There is little difference between some of these Alaskan residents and those from my home town.  The dogs themselves were a little too savvy.But when it comes down to the final vote, my girls (daughters) always know to reach over at the end of the film and touch the corners of eyes, checking for tears...and there were some.  I like a happy ending that touches the soul.  Some Disney films do it and others don't.  The Hunchback did. Mulan did (figures with a father-daughter relationship).  The Princess Diaries still had an effect but less so.  But my all-time favourite is Beauty and the Beast tears of joy and great messages.Now watching any Disney film another forty to fifty times on video and DVD is another story...a thesis for any anthropologist, psychologist or psychiatrist. "},{"Title":"AWFUL....LY GOOD","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Now, the first problem with this movie was that i thought the dogs were going to be made of snow. Well, SPOILER!!!! they were not. They talked too, now my dog doesn't talk, ok it does. But anyway, this movie was amazing, one of the greatest movies made, ever. This movie was a waste of money however. Although it was great, it was awful, poorly acted and poorly done. Despite that, it was great. Oh yeah the costumes, script and everything ugh. Seriously though...midgets.  "},{"Title":"Harmless, but should it be?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Snow Dogs, a kids movie that works ENTIRELY on that level, places Miami dentist Cuba Gooding Jr (anybody who is a fan of Cuba Gooding Jr who wants to see this movie soely cause he's in it should stay home) in the Alaskan wilderness with a bunch of dogs that got inherited to him from his late parent's death.  The hallucaination sequence is actually pretty funny, although the kiddies will be dissapointed since that is the only time the little huskies talk throughout the movie.  More is there for them, but nothing for me (or for the parents in tow except for gruding from James Coburn whom I'm surprised to see after winning an Oscar 3 years ago).  D+ "},{"Title":"Who Let The Dogs Out?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"     This movie, Snow Dogs was very funny. It is one of the best kid's movies I've ever seen in theaters. The movie is about Ted Brooks (Cuba Gooding Jr.) who has been a famous dentist all his life, following his father's path, but when he is sent to Alaska in a small town to collect what his real mother left him, and just realizing he was adopted, there could be problems. Then, he meets Barb, a nice cafe waitress. Now, Ted is staying in his mother's cabin, and finds a huge pack of sledding dogs..... now, there could be trouble. This movie was great for kids and never bored you. I give Snow Dogs a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Cheese corn anyone?","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There is cheesy, there is corny, and then there is cheese corn. You can get cheese corn in the three gallon metal drum, its usually accompanied by caramel corn and regular popcorn. Or you can get it from the movie Snow Dogs.I just recently read an article that was linked to IMDb.com that was about actors that had made poor career choices after having won an Oscar. Most notably on this list was Halle Berry for doing Catwoman and Cuba Gooding Jr. for projects after Jerry Maguire. I racked my brain to think of what Gooding Jr. had done after Jerry Maguire. I thought of Men of Honor, which was pretty good, Rat Race, which was also fairly good, Radio, which was very good, and then Boat Trip and Snow Dogs came to mind. Boat Trip and Snow Dogs were awful enough to effectively erase all good accumulated by the decent movies Gooding Jr. was in.Snow Dogs is about a dentist (Gooding Jr.) who finds out he's adopted and finds out that his mother has passed away and left him a bunch of huskies. He goes to Alaska to claim his inheritance and there he finds out that not only was his mother White, but so was his father. Go figure?!! He proceeds to have some comical happenings there in Alaska, all which were forgettable because they weren't the least bit funny. I have to be honest and say that I don't know how the movie concludes because I had no interest in watching anymore of it. The story was absurd, and Gooding Jr. just over did it.Some comedians are good when they are animated, e.g. Robin Williams and Jim Carey. Cuba Gooding Jr. is not. He tried very much to add to the comedic nature of the movie with his lively mannerisms, but it only succeeded in making the movie more cheesy. Couple that with the dogs and there equally corny contribution to the movie and you get a nice bucket of cheese corn. Eat up! "},{"Title":"Too much sugar makes you sick","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, okay. It's supposed to be fun and fantasy. Yet this formula film disturbs me because you know it is the product of hard nosed beancounters married to a politically correct format. I suspect they didn't even chuckle if they even viewed their handiwork. It's not the sort of genuine story that Disney once produced before it became a  big ugly conglomorate. One gets the feeling it was stamped out much like sugar donuts...uniform, bland, nutritionally void and manufactured as cheaply as possible and to sell without satisfying.  Sure, it has its entertaining moments. But the whole thing is, well, so damned goodie two shoes that I felt my stomach had been pumped full of treacle. Even the mandatory bad guy turns out to be a good guy. And they all do live happily ever after. Everybody. Ecstaticly. Even the damned dogs! Furthermore, if they wanted to do a story about Alaska, why didn't they shoot it there rather than stealing and misrepresenting Alberta. The least they might have done would have been to put a Canadian flag in the scene at the finish line where there are several other national flags including that of Norway. Why does Hollywood --- or in this case, Lake Buena Vista --- ignore Canada with such offensive and xenophobic  determination.    "}{"Title":"Feel good movie","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of those pretty little movies that are warm, nice and entertaining without beeing too mushy. It´s fun for all the family to watch together, the kids love the jokes. And the dogs are the best, the usage of unreal features is minimal. "},{"Title":"Sunday Morning Movie with forgettable characters and story, but wonderful mountain scenes and charming dogs","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have never been a fan of Cuba Gooding Jr., and never will be .. His facial expressions just does not let him be taken seriously, in my opinion .. You may think that, that trait would make him a good cast for the lead role, but his character is just too silly and clumsy that you will never understand how he is the successful and rich dentist in the movie .. He looks and acts like a 12 year old spoiled child, with an even 'smaller' mind age .. The movie feels like a fairy tale, where the scenario can possibly be overlooked by kids, but not by adults .. The story had great potential of being a wonderful family movie .. But both the actors and director and other stuff just does not seem to care thinking about how to formulate the scenes in an intelligent way to make it an all-ages movie .. They just choose the easy way with unimaginative slap-stick jokes, which you see coming from miles away .. No big surprises nor small witty touches in the dialog that would appeal the viewer, but a stereotype ending where the-guy-who-comes-from-the-city and does-not-know-a-single-thing-about-huskies saves the day .. I found the whole idea boring .. The dogs were charming, the small number of mountains scenes were beautiful .. But the whole experience is just forgettable, and probably you will regret the time you spend for it ..On the other hand .. If you want to show your kids a movie they can enjoy, this IS the movie .. No deep plot, nice doggies, a hero guy, and funny (!?) jokes .. For the adults, I recommend something else, several other Disney movies but not this one .. Rating 8/10 for kids (some intelligent kids may find it boring ), 2/10 for adults (for brief glimpses of snow covered mountains and the dogs) .. "},{"Title":"View it through the eyes of a child.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have heard nothing but complaints -- enough! My children love this movie and  although it's not Oscar material, so what? That's not what we're going for here.I think people are too jaded. This is a charming movie. There is some slapstick in it, but  nothing that could be seriously called violence. No nudity, no dirty jokes, no sex. I  lived in Alaska for three years and the Canadian scenery here is so breathtaking it  reminded me of Fairbanks.It's nice to see that Disney can still make movies that are entertaining to kids. And safe  for them to watch. I paid to see it, I bought the DVD for my kids to enjoy and I would do  it again. "},{"Title":"Not too great","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not too great and far down the limits to be a good movie. Not such a great comedy or romantic movie.You can predict most of the movie.Louzy jokes and louzy acting performances. Not worth spending your money. Greets El Loco "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was an entertaining comedy, but I believe that one of the main themes of this Disney film is a little too adult for the kiddies (paternity and extramarital affairs).  I'm surprised that Disney would try to weasel something like that into a kiddie film.  Some of the jokes were a little flat, nothing special.  I'm glad I rented this and didn't see it in theaters because I would've walked out.  It's worth more of a rental than $6.25 in the theaters. "},{"Title":"Funny movie not really!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you want to see a funny movie without anyone under 17, watch South Park, Bigger, Longer, and Uncut, if you want to watch a funny movie with anyone under 17, watch Scooby-Doo. But this is not funny but a great movie. But you will have to watch this movie with actors playing  dentists, in less you want to see a real dentist. You will may not like this movie if you are not a fan of Cuba Gooding Jr, or you may like it fan or not. As the movie opens, a dentist named Ted Brooks (Cuba Gooding Jr.) finds out from his mother that he is adopted after he gets an important message from Alaska. About the death of a Lucy Watkins his birth mother. He makes his work from Miami, Florida. So he travels to Alaska to find out that he has inherited Lucy's estate and aslo her snow dogs and a regualr dog as well. In Alaska he meets a bar/restaurnt owner named Barb (Joanna Bacalso) and falls in love with her. If this this is a funny movie it is not. It got rated PG for mild crude humor. And it is a very rare movie to not be rated for bad words. 10/10           "},{"Title":"Just a kids film","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to point out here that all those 10 out of 10 comments/this is the best film ever, must be from kids.  Anyone over 18 who enjoyed this must have an IQ if 10.  Don't waist your time - If you have to take the kids to something, try Scooby-Doo.  If your kids want to see this, dump them in the cinema and get the heck out fast. "},{"Title":"not much fun for either children or adults","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In the dishearteningly mediocre `Snow Dogs,' Oscar-winner Cuba Gooding Jr. plays a Miami dentist who inherits an Alaskan dogsled team from a mother he never knew he had.Perhaps to compensate for the bland inexpressiveness of the canines themselves, Gooding Jr. prances, preens and mugs for the camera in a vain attempt to bring some badly needed life to the proceedings.  Indeed, the dogs are so lacking in personality and character that they become little more than bit players in their own movie.  For some inexplicable reason, the creaky Jim Kouf screenplay concentrates almost exclusively on the dull plot mechanics involving a young man's attempts to come to terms with the various adults in his life &#150; particularly his derelict father played by yet another Oscar-winner, James Coburn.  Of what possible interest this could be to the target audience of the film &#150; 5 to 10 year olds - I find it impossible to fathom.  With so little attention paid to the dogs in the film, even the least demanding viewer will quickly find himself bored, restless and disappointed.There seems to be an unwritten rule among adult critics that states that children's films are not to be held to the same standard as adult films, that somehow one needs to qualify one's criticism with the understanding that children do not judge movies by the same terms adults do.  Yet does one feel the need to qualify one's praise of `The Wizard of Oz'? Of `Mary Poppins'? Of `E.T. &#150; The Extraterrestrial'?  Certainly not, for any great film that can be enjoyed by children can be enjoyed by adults as well.Sad to say, `Snow Dogs' is a movie that neither children nor adults will take much pleasure in.   "},{"Title":"it's family fun","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cuba Gooding Jr. plays successful Florida Dentist, Ted Brooks.  Ted grew up in the business, learning from, and eventually inheriting the business that his father started.  Ted has grown the business beyond belief and is assisted by a younger dentist, played by Sisqo, and even frequently finds his mother, played by Nichelle Nichols from the original Star Trek. Ted's life is brought to a crashing halt the day he is handed a summons to appear in Alaska for the reading of his birth mother's will. Since Ted was unaware of his adoptive status he begins to question everything about his life and heads to the remote Alaskan town. There he finds that he has inherited his mother's land as well as her prize-winning dog team.  The team seems to have a mind of it's own though with personalities thrown in all over the blaze.  Ted's actual first meeting with the dogs ends with his parka in shreds all around the house. Ted begins his attempts to win the trust of the team as well as interacts with the quirky town characters.  He meets total resistance from all as to the identity of his birth-father but does begin a friendly relationship with the town bartender and a somewhat rancorous relationship with the town recluse Thunder Jack, played by James Coburn, who only wants to buy the dogs at a discount price. Ted eventually begins to learn the art of mushing as well as finds the identity of his birth-father and starts a relationship of sorts with him Brian Levant directs the stereotypical fish-out-of-water story here with ease.  Ted is the hotshot, sports-car driving Florida Dentist.  All his life he has been surrounded by family, beaches, and sun.  Now he is trying to figure out about a family he never knew as well as handle the sudden exposure to mountains, snow, and a sled team of spirited dogs.  He is struck by the amazing beauty as well as the solitude of the area and it conveys to the audience. The story is, as I mentioned, stereotypical from start to finish. However, the actors involved make it succeed.  Cuba Gooding Jr. basically plays the movie for laughs the entire time with occasional bits of drama. Most of the time he is prat-falling, shrieking, or trying to win over the dogs.  James Coburn is stoically imposing throughout and yet still manages to show a sense of tenderness. The dogs are hysterical.  Outside of one dream sequence, they basically communicate through looks and actions.  The two principle dogs are Nana, desperate for attention and the possibility of racing with the team, and Demon, who is intent on making Ted's life a living Hell until Ted convince Demon who the alpha of the pack really is. Kids are going to love this movie and there are enough comic moments that adults will be able to sit through it.  The scenery is definitely worthy of another trip to Alaska, the actors obviously are having fun with it, and the adoptive storyline may strike a chord in some.   "},{"Title":"yikes.........","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think everyone will agree with me when I say that Walt Disney owes us an apology.  I went to see it when it was playing on a double feature with Monsters, Inc.  I had seen the ads for it on television, thought it looked terrible, and I decided to check it out to see if I was right.  This was a TERRIBLE movie.  It has been done so many times and was EXTREMELY unfunny. Cuba Gooding, Jr. must really need some extra cash.  And he will be paying for this career suicide.  It is no wonder that kids are growing up so stupid when this is the type of film that we are presenting them with. Horrid. "}{"Title":"How to ruin a great book","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is supposedly based on Winterdance by Gary Paulsen. Forget the movie and read the book. This is one of my favourite books - I have read it several times and still get a lot of enjoyment from it. Everyone that I have recommended the book to have also enjoyed it.Why they had to change the book so radically is beyond me. The book has so much depth and character development that it would have made an excellent movie.The book, which is autobiographical, covers the same basic idea as the movie - the training of a dog team to run the Iditarod dog race in Alaska. We learn about the dogs personalities and also about how they interacted with Gary Paulsen.So once again forget the movie and read the book "},{"Title":"A dentist discovers that he is an adopted son","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  An incomplete comedy in plot and its sequences. Gooding Jr. is an actor with a lot of possibilities, but if he acts in such films he will never be a superstar. Quite funny the way dogs behave, at least this is interesting in the film, but the rest is certainly incomplete and not well terminated film. Coburn is good, hard as usual, but also convincing. The views of Alaska is like an advertisement to go there, plenty of snow, bears and dogs around. This film could have been done much better, it has everything possible to make it more attractive.         "},{"Title":"Not the movie your led to believe you'll see...","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's not often enough that that the theatres comeout with a family movie, and its a shame that the entertainment business hasn't realized that it is a lucrative untapped area, because when a good family movie comes out, usually parents will take the kids to see it at least twice, like Monsters, Inc. or even more like my nephew who's seen Harry Potter already 10 times.  I as an adult, only see great movies only once in theatresm (but I'm tempted to go see Lord of the Rings again).Disney for the most part has comeout with really great entertainment, Monsters, Inc. was really fun, and Emporer's Groove still puts me in stitches.  I don't know what they were thinking when they decided to fumble around in the dark with SNOW DOGS.  In a nutshell, the previews and commercials LEAD you to believe that its a movie about these sled dogs.My wife and I took our 5 year old daughter expecting to see something along the lines of Dr. DoLittle and Babe, where the dogs actually play the biggest part of the movie. NOT SO!  Instead its a below-average movie with no real surprises and easily read into along this yawning journey.  My 5 year old was so squirmy and bored with this flick she asked if we could leave. This picture is just barely worthy of being aired on TV during Disney's Sunday movie.  Don't wast your money, in going to see it or going to rent it, which should be on shelves within the blink of an eye.   Hey Disney, I want my $20 bucks back! "},{"Title":"Typical Disney claptrap","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A fairly typical live action Disney movie that might please the less discriminating kids in the audience but will leave everyone else mostly bored. Cuba Gooding Jr. is a dentist from miami who discovers that he is adopted and goes to Alaska to inherit a dog sled team from his real momma... pretty dumb stuff all around. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Snow Dogs","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I may have seen a clip on TV or in the cinemas at the time of release, and many sources informed me that this Disney film was terrible, so I had to see if that was the case, from director Brian Levant (The Flintstones, Jingle All the Way, Are We There Yet?). Basically Miami dentist Ted Brooks (Cuba Gooding Jr.) has his face on hundreds of buses in the city, and he receives a letter from Alaska informing him of the death of his birth mother, so he was adopted by Amelia (Star Trek's Nichelle Nichols). He has an inheritance to claim, so he travels to the snowy Alaskan village of Tolketna where he is given a shack, and a pack of sled dogs who aren't every keen on their new owner. Despite not getting on with the dogs, and having a cash offer from grizzly Thunder Jack (James Coburn, in his final screen appearance before his fatal heart attack), Ted keeps the dogs like his mother intended. Along the journey of trying to get the dogs on his side, he starts hanging out with Barb (Joanna Bacalso), and it is obvious a love interest is developing between them. When Ted hears about the up and coming Arctic Challenge, a local race, he wants to have the dogs compete and show Thunder Jack, who may or not be his father (but is apparently) what they're made of. Also starring Thong Song rapper and Celebrity Big Brother's Sisqó as Dr. Rupert Brooks, Wild Wild West's M. Emmet Walsh as George, Graham Greene as Peter Yellowbear, Brian Doyle-Murray as Ernie and Jean Michel Paré as Olivier and Michael Bolton. With films like Boyz n the Hood and Jerry Maguire it is quite annoying seeing Gooding Jr. wasting his time in films like this, Boat Trip and Norbit, he hasn't done anything really good since Rat Race. Anyway, he and the rest of the cast don't do much, it is up to the cute and cuddly wolf-like husky dogs to keep the young audience happy, and some quite dull slapstick comedy, it is pretty terrible. Adequate! "},{"Title":"I am not putting any part of that dog in my mouth!","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From the unoriginal story, to the inconsistent characters, to the painful acting of Cuba Gooding, Jr., Snow Dogs proved two truths. The first is that Disney can successfully make and mass-produce B-level cinema. The second is that they can make Oscar-winning actors give the worst performances of their careers. Snow Dogs demonstrates fully that some people in Hollywood choose money over scripts, they choose flimsy over developed, and recycled over original. What upset me the most about this film was the use of CGI to exaggerate the dog's expressions. To me, that is a huge slap in Cuba Gooding, Jr's face. If the studio didn't think that Cuba could successfully make the audiences laugh, then they needed to get stronger talent, do not muddle the genre with CGI created eyes, mouths, and expressions on the dogs. With this CGI, I felt as if I was watching a quick fix to an already unfixable problem.Did I go into this film expecting greatness? Not in any way shape or form. What I did expect was a level of professionalism topped with some brilliant something to make me utterly aware that this was a Disney film and while they may have a bad film on their hands, at least they may throw money to fix the problem. Again, my expectations were demolished. It became very obvious as I watched this film that half of the scenes were in front of a green screen, not actually in Alaska. Some of the more emotional moments were completely ruined by the horrid special effects in place. Disney has the money, where did the $35 million dollar budget go? From the CGI created dog faces to the CGI trees, bears, and mountains, you never felt like you were in Alaska at all, but instead warmly comfortable inside an obvious sound stage. Pay up Disney, you cheated me on this one&#133; From the delivery of the lines, the horrid physical comedy (which never worked), to the random moment of romance, not one character in this movie stayed in character or gave us any semblance of an actual character. I watched an hour and a half of actors awkwardly demonstrating to us that they did not know their characters, that they did not know their lines, and that the paycheck at the end was more important than the work throughout the process. I place solely the blame on Cuba Gooding, Jr. What happened to him? From the opening scene in Miami to the ending embarrassing catch-phrase, I felt like Cuba should have handed the Academy back the award and apologized to everyone profusely. There are lines in Snow Dogs that were obviously read from a cue card. There were moments when it was obvious Cuba didn't care. He showed no range of emotion, no rational credibility, and again, there was no character. Who was Cuba Gooding, Jr. in this film? Just like a Tootsie Roll Pop, the world may never know! I could easily, and sadly, say the same about James Coburn. He was awarded an Oscar as well and the best he can manage is Snow Dogs? Who was Thunder Jack? What was his story, what made him gruff, what &#133; what &#133; what &#133; just too many questions running through my mind with these key actors that it makes me feel sorry for the child audience this film was aimed towards. It was very clear that neither of these actors were passionate about the story for they would have stopped early and backed away. I would have thought that Cuba (or at least James Coburn) would have put their hands down when it was discovered that SISQO (Mr. Thong himself) was going to be a key player. Unbelievable is the level of lacking respect that both of these actors had for themselves. The proof is in Snow Dogs.What bothered me the most about this film was the lack of intelligence aimed towards children. This was a family film, yet racism seemed to be slapped directly in your face. There was a scene that sticks out in my mind when Gooding tries to find his real father and assumes that it can only be the other black man in town. When it is discovered that it is someone else, there is a shock in the community. This film was released in 2002, with the society that we live in why would this be such a shock to the system? Couple this with the fact that Michael Bolton brings us the inspirational line from the film, It doesn't matter what color you are, everyone can have soul. Egh. Where did this come from, and is this a good message to send to children? This ranks right next to the feeling that Gooding's love-interest was the only woman within a 100-mile radius, and that those living in Alaska are grizzly men with bad teeth. I felt midway through this film that Disney executives were in their offices insisting on another Cool Runnings-esquire film (there was even a Volkswagen moment in this one). Sadly, with Snow Dogs their request became a nightmare.Overall, this was a cheap film, which boasts Oscar-winners performing well below the bar, CGI dogs and background, a story that hinges on the edge of fantasy, and the quintessential Disney bow of approval. What I mean by this is that anything can happen, and with Disney films, it will. Gooding has the finances to leave his dental practice for several weeks without worrying about missing work, he can learn how to dog sled within a couple days, saves a man's life, and he immediately falls in love with the only girl from town who happens to be a model in her spare time. For those looking for a cute and cuddly film about dogs, I would not suggest this garbage. It is predictable, pretentious, and pathetic.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"What a lost opportunity!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film could have been great. There are plenty of great family films out there that have multi-age appeal, so why did they write such a dud? Usually I would never buy a film unless I'd seen it first but we bought this movie on DVD because my daughter had seen it at the cinema and thought it great. I was hugely disappointed. As others have said, the dogs are beautiful and are well managed. The scenery is equally fantastic. But the pointless characters - why are they included? The terrible slapstick 'comedy', why is there so much? And the plot, you could have got away with the sheer predictability of it if the comedy had been better written - it can be done - why waste thousands of dollars making a film you would only want to see once? "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was just stupid.  I didn't find a single thing humorous in the entire film.  Now, my wife and seven year old daughter laughed a lot.  My six year old daughter and I snuck out a couple of times to get candy to stay awake! "},{"Title":"Blah...","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  So this is supposed to be a comedy ? Well, it is, before the movie really begins it's action. Its the ultimate remake of the life savers' story, in a nice Alaska style background. And when CD covers and dogs are talking to you, it isn't funny anymore, it is more like a POS. Don't spend money on this crap. "},{"Title":"Adrift.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The theatre was nearly full, including many children. Yet we laughed only once, at a comment by James Coburn, whose considerable talents are wasted here. This is formulaic pap, with cardboard characters. It left us all cold. "}]