[{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It was so poignant to see this film now, with all the strife that is taking place in Israel. To say that this film is a must see is an understatement; it should be mandatory for all Palestinians and Jews to see it together. We can only hope that its projects like this that will open the rest of the world's eyes and let them understand what life is like there. People who only watch CNN in the states will never understand what it means to be apart of this world. It's just too bad that so many millions will be in line to see Star Wars next week, and maybe less than 1% of those people will see this film. In a perfect world, it would be the other way around. But until the generations to come find a way to stop harboring hatred and to stop continuing a way of repression and violence, this is the world we will be in. It will take a long time, but I hope some day we will all be able to put our religious differences aside, and realize that we are ALL right.What an inspiring and terrifying film. It was so well documented, almost every scene and every word is important. A brave project with a wonderful message; I can't say anything bad about it.  "},{"Title":"Oscar snub","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  One of the most uplifing, hopeful and fulfilling documentaries I've seen in quite some time.  Also one of the most depressing and frightening films I've seen.  Explains the entire palestine/israel problem at its most basic, most pure level, children.  Outstanding work. "},{"Title":"A Timely and Moving Film","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Shot by American-Israeli co-director, B.Z. Goldberg between 1997-2000, Promises is a timely and moving look at the Arab-Israeli conflict from the point of view of seven Israeli and Palestinian children including Arabs, Orthodox Jews and secular Jews. The film, which was nominated for an Academy Award for best documentary, gives truth to the biblical refrain that a child shall lead them and provides some hope for a better understanding from the next generation. Indeed, if adults were as open, honest, and giving as these children, there would be no more talk of checkpoints and terrorists and innocent people blown to bits.Filmed in Israel and the West Bank Occupied Territories, we see an Israel rarely seen on CNN, a country of checkpoints and segregated corridors reinforced by violence.Goldberg, a secular Jew who grew up in Jerusalem, studied film at New York University and worked as a journalist in Israel. He filmed 170 hours and narrowed it down to 106 minutes. Throughout the film, each child is interviewed separately and most recite the litany of hatred and misunderstanding that they have learned. Moishe, 12, lost his best friend in a Palestinian Intifada, while Faraj, a young Arab, mourns for his closest friend who was killed by an Israeli soldier. The more Jews we kill, the stronger the Arabs will be, states a Palestinian boy. As the film progresses, a strong desire for peace and reconciliation emerges through the quiet, thoughtful questions posed by Goldberg. Goldberg astonishingly brings the Israeli twins Yarko and Daniel to spend a day with their Palestinian neighbor Faraj. At first they maintain an aloofness but as the day progresses they forget all about their politics in a few hours of wrestling, playing ball, and eating a delicious meal. The most emotional moment comes when Faraq breaks down and cries because he realizes that when the cameras leave, everything will be the same as before and they will never see each other again. I couldn't see the next few minutes because of all the moisture in my eyes.In a sad epilogue, the children are shown two years later, somewhat hardened in their attitudes, ready to sacrifice themselves for a futile conflict. Perhaps by now, some of them have blown themselves up in glorious martyrdom or were simply caught in the wrong place at the wrong time when a bomb went off. The most heartbreaking statement comes from one of the children who state, The life we live doesn't allow us to accomplish our dreams.Nevertheless, listening to these children, there has to be some reason for optimism. In war both sides suffer, one of the Israeli twins says. Maybe there's a winner, but what is a winner? Perhaps what we need are more people like Yarko, Faraj and Goldberg to show us the way. "},{"Title":"Lives will be saved by this film","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Ever since I knew this was a film made in part by a Mexican, and that it had such an impact in award ceremonies, I've been looking for it.I was glad to find out that all the honors, prizes and kudos given to it weren't in vain.It's a wonderful experience to sit through. It widens the vision you have of the conflict, by letting us see it through the eyes of young, but not that innocent children.Some, we know they're talking with their open heart, some, we know they're reserving their real thoughts. In the end, the blend of ideologies -some simple, some quite complex- are enough to keep you asking for more.I do believe this is a film that should be shone, not only in school across the United States, but across the entire globe. It is my suggestion that this film be included as part of a subject across the whole world.If you are truly interested in this film, its makers are eagerly waiting the chance to make a sequel to it. All they're waiting for is the budget to be ready. Want to contribute? Check their web site!This are not actors, or aspiring performers. This are real people, real children. With hopes, with wishes, with thoughts. The camera is only there to show us a brief moment in their lives, but what about the rest?They will be there, in a land plagued by constant, (and to me, personally) senseless war. Even though they have already been through a lot of experiences some of lucky humans will never be put to, they are still children, who wait for a chance like this, to make themselves a Promise. "},{"Title":"All of these, under the name of God","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Promises is an extraordinary film. It was deeply moving and profoundly devastating film, especially it echoes the reality of Iraq war and the recent attack in London. Through seven children's eyes, this film examines the root of hatred between Israel and the Palestinian and provokes the hunting question Is there ever going to have peace? You would think those children are young and innocent. They might be young, but they grew up in the war zone and they saw their families and friends were killed or injured by the enemies. The seeds of hatred already buried deep inside of their young hearts. What a human tragedy! It broke my heart to see they lost the innocence at such a young age. Some of them were so articulate and insightful than many of the adults, such as the president. What troubles me the most is besides the lost in human lives, their hatred is coming from what they believe in religion. All these fighting and killing are under the name of God.I was in tears when a phone call was made between the boys from both sides. I saw some hope, out of desperation. But how long will that hope last? Sadly, the war in Iraq is basically creating the exact situation in Israel and the Palestinian. There is no ending of killing in sight, only the deep hatred toward each other keeps building up.Promises is a must see documentary. "},{"Title":"excellent account of the conflict","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It is a constant sadness that of all the multitudes of reports about the middle east , mostly 30 second news stories, they  totally lack any kind of perspective of the true feelings of the people behind the terrorists on both sides.This documentary is a rare chance to gauge a true account of the views and the emotions of children in the region. It is certainly the most fascinating and informative documentary on the Palestinian/Israeli I have ever seen. It is without sensationalism entirely, which when used is news reports and similar documentaries, de-sensitises us to the magnitude of the events and makes them seem ordinary.The main emotions I felt in the film were of deep sadness for children who had been let down terribly by their leaders . The final scene, where the children meet and let out their emotions is when you truly feel despair for the children , all of which were intelligent and articulate, but in the end are forced to pick sides by men of ignorance. "},{"Title":"Emotional","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw this film at the International Film Festival in Rotterdam in 2001(and it is still fresh in my mind). It was its première. At the end of that festival the film won the public award. It is now showing in cinemas here in Amsterdam and anyone should go and see it. Without showing any judgment the film show the reality of the Middle-East conflict through the eyes of the children. And the children make the film because they are open to new experiences and are willing to try new things. The film says that any hope for any peace in that region will come if children will meet on a regular basis. It also says clearly that the danger lies in the extremists from both side and it seems that both side have their fair share of extremists children who are growing with hate towards the other side.Let hope that everyone there will wake up soon and will go and see this film and maybe than everyone will realize that hate doesn't lead to anywhere and children are the hope for the future as long as they don't grow up hating anyone. "},{"Title":"A captivating movie that will make you emotional","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a documentary about 7 kids living through the Peace Process between Israel and the Palestinian people, between 1995-2000. Allow me to quote from the Festival's programWithout newsflash superficiality, political commentary or cold analysis of the situation in the Middle East, Promises is a documentary filmed between '95 and '00 that brings the perspective of seven children from diverse backgrounds and both sides of the conflict. Moishe is a settler child; Mahmoud supports Hamas; Shlomo is ultra-orthodox; Faraj lives in Dehaisheh and dreams of returning to the village from which his grandfather was exiled; Sanbal is from a refugee family with modern views; twins Yarko and Daniel are secular Israeli kids living in West Jerusalem. All live a few kilometers from one another, but are worlds apart. Before adolescence, children are freer, more spontaneous and can express themselves directly and without self-censorship. They can express what adults are afraid to say. At the same time, children, who usually allow the facts to confuse them, carry the hope for change in the patterns of hostility engrained in the minds of adults.I saw the film at the 2001 Jerusalem Film Festival, with the twins and Mahmoud in the audience as well. Everyone was glued to the film and I think I saw many people shed some tears as Faraj, Sanbal and the twins meet for one day, doing what seemed impossible at the beginning of the project. Their faith of goodness of people is catching, and leaves you in the audience regretting the fact that us, adults, have a harder time sitting together and just getting to know one another. While the bloodshed may continue for a while longer, it is important to view such films that allow us to accept another option of the conflict.One of the best documentaries of the year and one that is a good one to give you an explanatory introduction to the conflict. It doesn't cover all basis in this very complicated situation, but at least you will get the idea that there is no easy solution in this political-religious-historical conflict. Hopefully these kids all could meet again one day in one place without any barricades between them.B.Z. Goldberg has definitely created relationships with these kids that without his people-skills wouldn't have made those kids open up to him the way they did. Watching Faraj weep when he realizes that BZ is going to leave them after the meeting with the twins and that all their efforts would be in vain is a moment you will remember for a long time. "},{"Title":"Give peace a chance","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" 7 children, 7 hates, 7 different lives, 7 possibilities, 1 meeting and 1 million chances to peace. Promises is a shiny and wonderful documentary about the conflicts between Israel and Palestine showed by children. It's extraordinary to see them talking about the conflicts they repeat their parents' opinion until the director B.Z. suggests a meeting. Some agree; others no. And the great moment of Promises is their meeting, when they're just kids playing, eating, laughing, talking, crying... That meeting waves to peace. It seems to be the solution adults don't want to see. Promises is great, one of the best movies I've ever seen in my whole life. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Very promising","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I only saw the second part of the movie, but that gave me enough impression to leave me in a state of having seen something everyone should see. And I think everyone and most of all Israelis and Arabs will agree that a way to peace will only be possible when encounters like these will take place, where kids from both sides will meet each other to discuss and understand each other problems. I am so much impressed about the openess, sincerity, wisdom and the stuff that separates the youth from the adults playing a soccer game, making fun, sharing dreams. It's hard to see that two years after the meeting the Arab boy has almost lost his belief in a solution. A while ago I heard an interview on the radio with the famous Jewish military expert Martin von Kreefeld. This interview impressed me as much as Promises, but in a very different way. To Von Kreefelds opinion, the only solution to the Jewish-Arab problem was building a high wall, deviding the two nations, probably at cost of some 30,000 lives. But then, so Von Kreefeld, there would finally be peace. Well, let's just hope future generations from Israel and Palestine will proove him wrong. The documentary is filmed at high speed and will grasp your attention immediately, and will not let loose. Very impressing, very... moving ;-) "}{"Title":"This is similar to what America did to the African Americans","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" After seeing this movie, I had to sit and think about my view of Israel/Palestine and Arab terrorists in general. The US supports Israel. Israel has made Arabs/Muslims third class citizens w/ zero rights and zero say. To leave their own town, they have to enter checkpoints, get searched and are usually denied access anyway. They are treated like we treated the Blacks. The blacks rebelled and gained freedom. The Arabs rebel because of their injustice in anyway they can (exactly like the blacks did!) and we support their oppressors(Israel)? Not only do we stand behind them, we HELP them do it. Bin Laden attacked the US in response to his anger at the US, which was in his eyes (and the entire Arab world), a BIG Israel. I had NO idea things were that bad in Israel/Palestine. The West Bank and Gaza strip fiasco makes the whole blacks in the back of the bus seem trivial. Which makes me wonder that if more people knew what was REALLY happening, would we hate Iraq/Afghanistan as much as we do? Did the Southern white plantation owners despise the blacks for rebelling? You bet your bippy they did. And after seeing this movie, I feel America has become the Southern Plantation Owner to the world, keeping the Arabs in their proper place in order to support Israel. I need to read about this some more, because I feel I've been cheated for years and not getting the whole story. Kind of like the Khmer Rouge, Rwanda and now Sudan....As a documentary, the story was flawless. I got angry at one of the Jewish Youths (Yanko?) for changing his view completely. After seeing the other side, feeling for them, and wanting to help make a change, he became part of the problem. He became flippant and uncaring. One of the Muslim girls, who became good friends with him, was explaing how upset and shocked she was when he joined the military. Her brother was arrested just for being an Arab and was in prison. The Jewish boy said he may have been the one who arrested him, he didn't know, and didn't seem to care either. This movie made more of a statement than Fahrenheit 911 or Bowling for Columbine did for the main reason that is wasn't even trying to. I'm not sure if anyone else got the same feeling from this movie as I did, but besides making me question my entire viewpoint, it was a fantastically filmed documentary. It didn't win the Oscar, but I don't know who it was running against. I rate this movie 4 marbles out of 4. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" OK so this is one of the greatest movies i have seen. I recommend this FOR EVERYONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is great for the whole family. My kids love this movie. My husband says he loves it as much as he loves football and if you knew my husband than he really loves it. I love it because i am half Jewish but also it is sad and hilarious at the same time. It is one of the best movies i have ever seen. I think I already said that but hey that is how much i love it. My whole family's favorite funny part is when the girl Rahel can't pull apart the two chairs.sorry for telling you this, but i kinda wanted to. well that's it. "},{"Title":"Quite interesting, but also a little depressing.","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Hearing perspectives if kids concerning most any subject is interesting. This is no exception.It's quite well balanced; in the scenes, the film-maker will pose a question or just let the kids speak. They speak plainly but do not try to lie to the camera.But this is also pretty depressing for me. Seeing how these kids - on both sides - have been brainwashed into hating each other based on past ignorance and fairy-tales. They start a speech speaking of something nice about how they go about their day, then start talking about killing other humans under the guise of religious rights.Still, a very good film. "},{"Title":"Unbiased documentary film-making at its best!","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Absolutely brilliant documentary which would likely end up in my top 10 documentary films of all time. The best of these documentaries I find are ones where the camera is simply pointed and amazing things begin to happen. This is the complete opposite of editorial documentaries which take an issue and tell us what to think about it. Those movies can at times be quite good as well (Food Inc., Supersize Me) but I don't think they compare to documentaries like Promises and Harlan County USA Promises is about Palestinian and Israeli children. Surprise, surprise, they're not all that different. They like sports, their friends, some of their subjects in school. They're also both exposed to a huge amount of propaganda.The brilliant part of the documentary is when the filmmaker suggests two of the Israeli boys meet one of the Palestinian boys. They all share a love for sports so it makes perfect sense. When it happens the filmmaker just runs the camera and the boys act like boys. It's amazing because the boys realize everything they've been told by their parents, the government and their religious leaders is bullshit.The updates aren't as promising and it's suggested that it's up to the next generation to bring peace to this region. But I think it also shows that despite this experience these boys have, some of them fall into old habits anyway. The twins in the movie end up joining the Israeli military.I think it suggests that it takes extremely strong people in these climates to overcome the kind of propaganda they're facing from the time they're born. To oppose Palestine or Israel if you lived there would essentially make you and outcast. "},{"Title":"Battle starts from their childhood","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This movie delivers well of how political tension between Israel and Palestine manipulates the mind and innocence of children. All they desire is a normal child life with peace and justice but yet the reality they face is separation, resentment, and despair. Watching this movie brought me sadness first then anger deep inside because this is happening right now at this present time and so many of us are not taking part to help those young souls to be free from hatred toward one another and growing to have deeper resentment. Maybe I as a US citizen might be supporting the separation and tension in that land by paying tax. How ironical. This movie is a must-see for anyone who has interests in the middle east situation. "},{"Title":"a little slow, but a very important message","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I think the saddest thing in the movie is when kids are sitting around discussing politics and talking about people dying around them as if it is a normal part of their day. The saddest thing is that the killing is around them all day long, but most children or even adults are given the opportunity to communicate with those they think they hate. In the end I think the best thing about the movie is that no matter how old we get or mature we get or how much information we get about the situation the problems are rooted in something much deeper in a way that confuses kids. The kids know the solution, but somehow no one can seem to implement it. I really think the documentary did some very important things and I am glad it was made. I honestly felt it was not paced very well and started out kind of slow and not all of the characters seemed necessary. I really recommend people seeing this movie and its message should not be lost. I guess what makes it hard to rate these documentaries is that I always feel so crappy at the end of them. I hate to see kids living like this with ideas already forced into their heads. None of those children talked like they were children. The best scene in the movie is when the traditional Jewish boy interacted with the Muslim kids and just laughed, but to find out later that we did not want to participate in the follow up interviews saddened me. Since this is such an important project I feel as if it is very important to see what those adults grew up to become. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" First of all, to the people who had the idea Congratulations. What an honest, human and original look at the israeli/palestinian issue. I mean, we see these kids who could easily grow, given their influences and environment, to know only hatred. But they do have one thing going for them they were given this amazing opportunity to get to know the other side, and understand that despite this huge wall of disagreement separating them, they were very much alike. It makes you believe there's hope for a solution, if the two sides can put themselves in each other's shoes, and understand that life is always precious. I think Promises should be shown in schools everywhere. It's a great way to get kids (and grown-ups) to relate and to be more sensitive to what's happening half way around the world. I was stuck to my seat throughout the whole thing. It really moved me. Next time it's on I'll try to get my family to watch with me. I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Deeply affecting and thought-provoking","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Far behind the headlines are the people engaged in the conflict between Israel and Palestine.  What's more, there are people behind the teens and adults killing themselves and each other  in this conflict. There are the children growing up very fast in the midst of all this insanity.  The film gives you a glint of hope that this conflict could some day end by planting the seeds  of cooperation in the next generation, but then makes you wonder when revisiting the same  children, slightly older, and more personally affected by tragedies on both sides. Overly  aged, bitter, and sounding very much rhetorically programmed, these kids are being swept  up in forces much larger than them, and one wonders if we can't count on the children to  end this vicious cycle, how will the conflict ever end? "},{"Title":"Promises","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Promises is a film that everyone should see to get a better outlook on the situation in the Middle East. The film goes straight to the children most affected by the problem and presents an uplifting story without taking away from the reality and seriousness of the situation. This film presents viewpoints that are sorely needed in understanding the Israel-Palestine situation, while providing some hope for the future. I feel that this film has changed the way I look at things around the world now. "},{"Title":"Changed my perspective","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When I turned on the Discovery channel and saw a what was on, I was immediatly captivated by Promises. The story is of seven Israeli and Palestinian children living in or around the city of Jerusalem and their hate for each other, which slowly changes. The most emotional scene for me was seeing Faraj breaking down and being reduced to tears during the meeting between Israeli and Palestinian children, it suddenly changed my perspective on the whole conflict. All that we in England see is the evil suicide bombers and the annoying Palestinians who won't leave Israel alone, but when seen from deep within the conflict, you just can't help but sympathise. Although the most shocking scene was Mahmoud openly supporting Hamas and saying the more buses we blow up, the angrier Israel gets.Promises has to be the most emotional documentary that I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"A must see","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I just saw Promises for the second time. It's a truly heartbreaking documentary, but it's also a terrific teacher of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict seen through the eyes of adolescents. The children were open, honest and very human. They gave us a perspective of their world without much of the anger and closemindedness that much of the rhetoric comes from otherwise. Some things I took from it were really just reinforcements...in war, there are no winners...There's good and bad in every individual and every culture...Hope is a blessing. The kids were great...The twins were witty and hilarious, Sanajal was sweet and determined and hopeful and Faraj tore my heart out when he broke down about B.Z. and the twins leaving. Congrats and thanks to B.Z. and the crew and I hope the world gets to see this film and that everyone tries a little harder to become more open, more educated, and help to bring an end to the bloodshed. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  this documentary was broadcasted on 2nd january 2002 on german television 'Das Erste' ... it was really impressive and interesting. helps to understand the situation down there in the middle east. really one of the best documentaries i've seen in my whole life. "},{"Title":"True and real!!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I've never ever seen such a powerful and real doc as promises!! It's indeed a new approach to this conflict trough the eyes of the children and the love/hate relationship. This cocktail of courage,love and openness made of this doc the best one I ever seen. Bravo,Bravo,bravo.  "},{"Title":"More than just a movie, a lesson.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Few movies have touched me so deep as Promises. I'm the kind that never cries at movies and although I've tried hard to hold the tears, the scene with the palestinian boy crying sadly because he would loose the friendship with the twins broke me completely. Very realistic, so actual, and deal with so strong emotions that carry us from deep laughs to deep crying in minutes or even seconds.The point of view seems to be very impartial and true. The music flows correctly as the film runs. Beautiful. The best documentary film I have ever seen!Really. More than a movie, a lesson, an experience of life, a must! Should be seen all over the world to make people understand how we need to seek peace and learn with this great example of the children wisdom. My personal thanks for Justine Shapiro and B.Z. for giving us this real gift (although i don't know them personally). "},{"Title":"Moving, Brilliant","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw this film at the Sydney Film Festival and thought it was the highlight. Over five years, this remarkable documentary follows a number of Israeli and Palestinian children. The documentary doesn't try to pass judgment on these children and most importantly shows the tragedy that the mid east crisis has had on the way these children think and live. This film highlights the universality of childhood experience and also what brings them apart, how many of their ideas on face value are just reflections of what we imagine their parents would say but more importantly, despite years of being told something, the ability to find acceptance in their hearts. The children themselves show often amazing intellects for their age - especially from some of the Arab children, who you can tell would probably not have the same level of education and opportunity as the Israeli children.If only this documentary could be shown throughout schools not only in the region but everywhere. Its value is not only so narrow as to be relevant to people who know something about the middle east. You'll go away feeling sympathy and concern for these children who quite unselfconsciously reveal their feelings.I don't know why the registry for this film is so empty - hopefully it will be on video or DVD soon. "},{"Title":"A cruel gloss on the tragic Palestinian situation","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I knew when I read the write-up for this documentary what it's goal would be to convince the viewer to see the light and sunny side of the ongoing Palestinian tragedy. And it certainly delivers on that promise, in spades.The major hidden, and very dishonest, assumption behind this film is that the situation in the occupied territories is basically static, and that peace between the two warring parties, i.e., Israel and Palestine, is simply a matter of letting bygones be bygones. But, in fact, as most mature, literate people nowadays know, Israel's ultimate aim is the total annexation of the occupied territories along with the total displacement of the indigenous Palestinian population outside of this greater Israel.I watched this film in a audience that was primarily composed of young college age people, many of them, I assume, must have been very bright, since it was being shown at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. And these kids swallowed the phony premise of this film hook, line and sinker. This just goes to show you how powerful the combination of naivité and a yearning for easy sentimental solutions can be.I could go on all day about all the deceptive and manipulative techniques used in this film. Instead, I would just like to recommend a documentary that gives a real, honest, comprehensive overview of the ongoing Palestinian tragedy Peace, Propaganda & the Promised Land. A film, I would like to add, that was also produced and directed by an Israeli Bathsheba Ratzkoff, and that includes interviews with a number of Israelis who are sincerely working for peace, and a number of American Jewish people who are also working for peace, and who all realize that no peace nor justice for the Palestinians is possible without first squarely and soberly confronting the real facts on the ground, as the popular saying goes.There's a strange sour note at the very end of Promises where one of the very charismatic Israeli twins speaks 2 years after the main events of the film, in answer to a short follow-up question. He says that the Palestinian boy that he and his brother had briefly befriended during the filming of the documentary tried to call him a number of times in order to get together with them on a semi-regular basis. But the twin says that it's just too complicated to try and do that, and that the whole war thing is just something that's mostly just a background issue in his life, anyway, so he and his brother just don't bother to even return the Palestinian boy's calls anymore. For a viewer that knows the real context for this film, this statement perfectly illustrates the disparity in their two living situations. The war is an annoyance/irritation for the Israeli twins, but it is an all consuming nightmare that the Palestinian boy is trying desperately to escape. And the charming twins really just can't be bothered. And by the basically dismissive and throw-away way that this question was presented at the end of film, neither can these film makers.But to give credit where credit's due, this was a very well made film and it could have been a very pleasant and amusing film if it had taken place in the Twilight Zone, instead of in the real world. Unfortunately, for those of us who have taken the time to educate ourselves about this timely and important issue, the lies and distortions of this film aren't even funny.  "},{"Title":"Good viewing","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Okay, so I watched this documentary called Promises today. It's a documentary about Israeli and Palestinian children and sort of investigates their perspectives on the Israel/Palestine.Honestly, going into the film, I thought I knew what to expect--kids being all lovely-dovey and hopeful for peace and wondering why the adults just don't get along. This was not true. Throughout the course of the film, you see the obvious impact of the conflict in Israel-Palestine on the children and how it skews their perceptions towards fear and the dogmatism of their older generations.Of course, given some time, their innocence does appear and they develop a willingness to engage each other. (This is on the DVD synopsis, so I'm not giving anything away). It's in that willingness and that changed perspective in allowing the feared to become human that causes hope to be born. Not to say that everything is peachy in the end; the documentary follows up in the DVD's extra features and the real world still affects the youth.I wonder what happened to these kids-now-young-adults in the recent conflicts. When you put a real name and face and story to people in the situation, it becomes harder to ignore it.Stylistically, the documentary is typical straightforward piece with lots of talking heads (mostly children) intercut with observational sequences. The directors/crew mostly stay out of the picture, but still can't help but getting involved, which is all right by me (I'm by no means an observational purist--in fact, I think it creates fiction out of non-fiction).The film is remarkable in that it bothers to plead for sanity and peace (shalom/salaam) in a world that's torn apart by violence. Good viewing. 8/10. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" it was an excellent movie. however i think that maybe maybe it could do with a voice over. an optional voice over because it might take some of the magic out of it. unfortunately some people have eyesight problems and it would make it easier for people like this if there were voice overs to the movie to make it slightly more enjoyable. aside from this i say that it was a great movie and very very enjoyable! i don't really think there was anything at all wrong with this movie, and not at all biased towards either jews or palestines. watching this movie once is simply not enough. to catch the full essence of this thoroughly well done movie you must watch it at least 2 times if possible, and if you can more. there is so much that you can learn about conflicts in the middle east through watching the progression of the lives of these children. it is nice to also know that they are all doing rather well today. sanabel is actually going to school in the states, and the rest seem to be fine... that's allllllllllllllllllllll ) ) ) ) ) "},{"Title":"Perfectly demonstrates the feeling of frustration and hopelessness of the Palestinian-Israeli land situation that I felt from visiting Israel first hand.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This was an excellently directed film that captures the Palestinian-Israel conflict in Israel that continues through today. The film helps anyone who has not had the privilege I have had of going to Israel first hand to understand the frustration and the severity of the problem of who's land Israel rightfully belongs to. Unfortunately this documentary helped to solidify my own opinion that the problem really is unsolvable without one side completely giving in, which as far as I'm concerned, will never happen.My biggest complaint is why was this documentary not made more accessible for more people to see? I would LOVE for all my friends and family to see it, but it hasn't played anywhere near my home. I was fortunate enough to see it on showing for a very limited number of people at UC Davis. The area where I grew up, the Bay Area, is full of Jews, as is the area if LA where my Grandparents live. Why is this movie not being shown? I agree 100% with the other comment that says this movie should be a requirement for all see. It's no punishment; it is wonderfully and powerfully directed film!  "},{"Title":"A documentary everyone should see.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A document for life. I saw it in Rotterdam, during the IFFR. The director was sitting behind me, I realized later. I have never experienced a silence during the last titles rolling over the screen. We were all so impressed. It was a moment to cry. Never, a documentary, or anything on the screen touched me so deeply as this projection.  "}{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A tell it like it is story that horrifies us and warms our hearts simultaneously. I was tremendously touched by the stories of the young people but I was also struck by how they were at such a young age hopelessly locked into a reality. "},{"Title":"Promises is not enough","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Promises is a feel-good sort of film -- far too easy for my taste, and not a good documentary. More like an opinion piece or a film essay. It's basically the liberal Israeli perspective -- the perspective that says Well, wouldn't it be nice if we could all just get along? without addressing the basic relationship between Israelis and Palestinians, which is embodied in the Israeli military occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. This film essentially treats the Palestinian and Israeli characters as if they are on an equal footing, having a healthy ideological debate. The reality is, of course, far different.If you want a more realistic portrayal of what is going on in the minds of Palestinians, and the situation that they face on a daily basis, I would recommend seeing Gaza Strip (2002) which is much more of a verite, unscripted piece of solid documentary work. Gaza Strip doesn't cover the Israeli perspective, but it does provide a much deeper picture of the Palestinians than Promises. Also, Promises was filmed almost entirely before the start of the current Palestinian uprising, so it tends to paint what is already an out-of-date picture. The two films would complement each other, I think. "},{"Title":"DVD was even better","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Well, I saw this movie, recently and was pleasantly surprised at the integrity of the presentation. This movie did a wonderful job presenting the struggle/conflict from the perspective of the children being interviewed. Having spent time working with Palestinian children in Ramallah (10 miles north of Jerusalem), I found myself recalling many, very similar, conversations with other children. What this movie reminded me of was the sincerity of these children as they spoke their impressions, as though they were fact.While I could not possibly keep track of all the incorrect statements being made by both sides (Israeli and Palestinian) within this movie... if the viewer is able to appreciate that the children are often simply repeating a mantra they have been trained in by the adults in their lives, the viewer can utilize this movie to learn more about the culture of this conflict.While interviewing the settler boy, we saw the hardness of his heart toward the Palestinians. We can supposed that he has learned this from his parents or other in his life. The movie does show a teaching session that the Palestinian children go through at a school of some kind. I was not surprised to see the strong political views being taught to the children. These kinds of tactics, which I viewed as well, while I was there, always seemed to be the best kind of introduction to a presentation for the PLO or Hamas recruitment. And I am sure that many of the Jewish kids receive a similar style of education. It is a sad story watching these kids being bred to mistrust one another.What I liked even more was the DVD Extra where 5 of the 7 kids were interviewed in the summer of 2004. I was surprised to hear the Palestinian girl say she was upset at the twins joining the IDF. Apparently, they never teach the kids there that the IDF soldiers service is mandatory. This was just another example of poor understanding of the other side, from both sides.I don't consider this movie completely unbiased... but it does do a good job, trying to present both sides of this conflict and the affect it has on the lives of the kids growing old through it. If you have an opportunity to watch it, don't pass it up. "},{"Title":"Okay, okay. That's nice, but does it miss the point?","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" A lot of people liked this film. Heck, I even like this film. I laughed, I cried...BUT...This isn't a Hollywood film about fictional characters in a fictional situation. It's a documentary about the Palestinian/Israeli conflict. So I have some very serious problems with the overall approach of the film.First of all, the main scenes in this film are built on the manipulation of reality by the filmmakers. In the two crucial scenes in the film, in which Palestinians are brought out of the West Bank to visit the remains of their village and Israeli children are brought into the West Bank to play with Palestinian children, the action is able to take place ONLY because the film's producers intervened and set up the situations.Now, to their credit, the directors don't hide the fact that they are manipulating reality. But just the fact that they do, and that this is what the entire crux of the film is based around, leaves me feeling a little empty. After all, wouldn't it be more to the point to show that, in fact, if you are Palestinian living in the West Bank you will NEVER be able to go visit the remains of your village in what is now Israel, and if you are Israeli you will NEVER go to a Palestinian refugee camp to find out what the enemy is actually like in person? I realize that these scenes are constructed to make a point. But I prefer documentaries that rely on the way things are, rather than the way things could/should be.And in creating this alternative to actual reality, the filmmakers have managed to gloss over the actual point that they SHOULD be making in a film about the Palestinian / Israeli conflict -- which is that the Israeli military occupation itself is at the root of this trouble, and that lifting it is the key to peace. Instead, a starry-eyed illusion is created in which, if we could all just meet each other and get along, then all the problems would be solved and the divisions mended. True enough, perhaps -- but where is the concrete truth, the actual root of separation? For all its lovely tearfulness, this film serves mostly to leave us feeling warm and sad, rather than address the actual issues that need to be addressed for this conflict to end. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie to get hopes up","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I saw this a while back on PBS I think. It was such an inspiring story, you really get the sense that there is hope for Israelis living surrounded by an Arab population who does not understand them and in turn fears this minority of Jews, much like others in the past have gone through in America.It would be nice if we could all get along and be friends and that is my hope, but knowing that the Palestinian children are brainwashed from childhood, sours those dreams. On television kids sing of becoming suicide terrorists and murdering Jews, in school they are taught that Jews are foreigners, despite being a majority of Jerusalem's population since before 1860. None of this is shown in Promises, and it is too bad, because the world needs to know that terrorism preceded occupation.I do hope promises can teach the Arab nations to be tolerant and kind to their Jewish neighbors. "},{"Title":"Good movie.... But is it too biased?","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Okay, folks... We had our nice secondary perspective at the situation, but just listen to a non- manipulated primary source such as myself, please.I am an Israeli teenager (fourteen years old) living in Berkeley, CA, and I would like to clarify that I have always stood with Israel, but not always agreed with it.This movie was, in fact, incredible. I enjoyed it and loved it. However, what I felt was happening was that the director used children to manipulate his left-wing views and project them innocently. Everyone who understands politics can see that this movie is left wing, as it criticizes the check points harshly, and projects the Israeli occupation as a satanic act.Now, if we just look beside the fact that these are cute/ugly/right-wing/left-wing/orthodox/ secular/martyred children... Take a look at the children's perspective and who we find a reliable source and who not...The chubby orthodox kid who loves his computer demonstrated the right-wing view of the Israelis, and as a slightly right-wing Israeli myself, I would like to say that his views do not represent the views of all of us. The director specifically picked a stupid-looking, stupid- talking, stupid-thinking right-wing kid in order to metaphorically say that these are the views of right-wing Israelis, and that's not true. On the other hand, the left-wing children, Yarko and Daniel (I was deeply impressed by those two), were very erudite, athletic, good- looking, and nice people - a model on how a kid their age should be. Just like there are smart right-wing people, there are also stupid left-wing people, and this is not the representation of a whole.On the other hand, the movie had some left-wing Palestinians (the girl whose dad is in jail), and some right-wing Palestinians (Faraj)... However, Faraj turned from a hating right-wing wannabe martyr to a much more tolerant, peaceful individual - and despite the fact that I am thrilled that he changed - I think that the message portrayed with this fact is extremely left- wing and biased. The fact that the right-wing Palestinian changed and the right-wing Israeli didn't gives outside viewers a bad image of Israel and the way it conducts its occupation.I think that this movie is good for left-wing Israeli viewers, who believe in giving Palestine it's own state - but the bad thing is that even if you are a non-Israeli who is left-wing, it still sets a bad image on Israel. And both Israeli right-wing and outside right-wings would not think it portrays a good view on Israel.So, as an Israeli - I can see that the only way I can like this movie is if I am left-wing... And only Israeli left-wings will think it doesn't set a bad picture of Israel.I hope I made sense.Sincerely, Ohav Shomrony-Cohen 14 year oldfearlessdeadman@hotmail.comOVERALL RATING ****/***** "}]