[{"Title":"A big surprize","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"52 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i didn't expect much coming into this movie, i didn't hear much about it and Van wilder was one of the national lampoon movies without Chevy Chase. however this movie surpassed all my expectations. Van Wilder defines the slapstick teen comedy of the new millennium. loaded with sexual humor and innuendo, Van Wilder keep the laughs coming. i believe Tara Reid was at her hottest in this movie, and believe it or not, there are a ton of quotable lines to live by in this film. as for the plot, its just about some guy who doesn't wanna leave the college he calls his home until he meets a girl that makes him realize his own potential. this film was much better then the last 2 American pies put together. this is a true popcorn movie to watch with your friends.  "},{"Title":"One hilarious movie","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"51 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was one heck of an hilarious movie. I can watch it over and over. Reynolds did a spectacular job in the movie, but I must say that without the character Taj the movie wouldn't have been as funny.This is more of a guy comedy type movie but my gf loved it also.The donuts scene I must say was a little gross but still the movie was amazing. Laughed from start to finish.....  This is the kind of guy everyone would like to be or know in College.I don't think they could of taken anyone else then Reynolds to do this role maybe I m just saying that because he is one of my favorite actors but he did do a great job. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"60 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilariously funny! I've seen it more than 4 times and it gets funnier every time! Ryan Reynolds is hilarious as Van Wilder, the lead role. Being that this is a National Lampoon movie, one would expect it to be funny. It definitely lives up to expectations of the previous National Lampoon movies. The script is ingenious and is extremely well-written. Many parts of the movie are unexpected, which makes it all the more enjoyable. This movie is so much fun to watch over and over again. The part with the dog and the eclairs is hilarious in itself. Although this is one of Reynolds' first movies, it is a big hit. Surely, we can look for more hilarious movies like this one in the future. "},{"Title":"Brainless, Makes 'American Pie' Looks Like an Art Movie&#133; But Also Very Hilarious. I Do not Recall the Last Time I Laughed This Way","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"44 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is a very popular student, who organizes big parties and raises funds for the most different causes in his college. After spending seven years in the college without graduation, his father Vance Wilder Sr. (Tim Matheson) decides to stop paying his tuition. He applies for a loan to continue in the college, and becomes a professional promoter of parties to pay the installments. Meanwhile, Gwen Pearson (Tara Reid), a student of journalism who writes for the college newspaper and is the girlfriend of an ambitious and brilliant student of medicine Richard, is assigned to write about Van Wilder. Her boyfriend becomes jealous and begins a personal fight against Van Wilder. In the end, of course Van Wilder and Gwen Pearson stay together. This movie is brainless, making 'American Pie' looks like an art movie&#133; but it is also very hilarious. Yesterday I laughed a lot and repeated many scenes, such as when Van Wilder applies for a loan; or with the strip dancer farting in the nightclub; or preparing the sandwiches for the fraternity of Richard; or when Gwen prepares a milk shake with colon-blow for Richard; or the examination of Richard for the medicine university. I agree that the jokes are scatological and of very low level, but I do not recall the last movie I laughed the way I did with 'Van Wilder'. Stop thinking and prepare to have 90 minutes of very funny situations. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) 'O Dono da Festa' ('The Owner of the Party') "},{"Title":"National Lampoon's Van Wilder is an aggressively funny movie,unashamed by its bad taste.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What this movie has and other movies lack are characters you admire and care about. The movie never succumbs to sentimentality, thankfully, and it keeps a high level of cheerfulness and humor through the entire running time. This is a movie that wants to party and have fun, where characters are in high spirits and at times a little inebriated. This is the movie that will put the National Lampoon franchise back into respectability. Not only is this movie gut-bustingly funny &#150; if you can get past the crude visual puns like a pit-bull with what looks like a ten-pound scrotum attachment, and a crotch-enhancer pump that is mistaken for a bong &#150; this transcendent comedy of gross manners is most affecting because it's incredibly well-made. Most college campus comedies are cheap in production value and clumsily structured. Van Wilder is exceedingly well-paced and smartly written, by writers Brent Goldberg and David T. Wagner (their love for Ferris Bueller is apparent) who know how to set up not only a joke but sequences of offhand slapstick that are irrepressibly absurd. Director Walter Becker (creator of the ingenious short-film Saving Ryan's Privates) handles the irreverent and random acts of background physical comedy with ease and panache.The campus wild man is fittingly known as Van Wilder (played by Ryan Reynolds). Van Wilder is a guy that has friends from everywhere, from the jocks to the nerds. Reynolds finds a precarious balance between recklessness and cheerful insanity, which is crucial because he turns acts of humanitarian philanthropy into casual and spontaneous gestures without giving second thought. No job is ever too big for the man, whether it is becoming the de-facto basketball coach that inspires the school's team to win or setting up a rockin' party for the geekiest fraternity on campus. Van Wilder has enthusiastic support from everyone but his burned-out workaholic father (played by Tim Matheson, once the wild man in National Lampoon's Animal House) who decides after seven years of his son's enrollment to stop tuition payment.Van Wilder becomes the subject of a school newspaper editorial and Tara Reid plays the snobby, uptight reporter Gwen whose ties belong to frat boy Richard Bagg (Daniel Cosgrove), who conducts hazing rituals that are crueler than anything since Animal House. When Gwen tries to get the naked truth from Van Wilder, she mostly just finds Van Wilder naked. But it's the smart rapport that develops between them that allows Van Wilder to strip Gwen's inhibitions, to let her walk on the wild side. In the background, a turf war erupts between Van Wilder and Richard.The plotting is shameless in its methods of revenge. There are innocent people involved in the mayhem, including a scene where pre-pubescent boys raid one of Van Wilder's parties and end up barfing out of a school bus (but hey, these young boys had the time of their life until then). Richard's fraternity brothers are sent a basket full of éclairs stuffed with juices from a particular dormitory pet. In a knock-off homage to Dumb and Dumber, a character digests a bottle of colon blow right before he is to take a final exam.The movie rarely takes a breath. It does settle for easy chuckles but goes for the comic gold, pushing past the ribbon of where comedy usually wears out in exhaust. Not every joke works, but you admire the efforts that the filmmakers went to in order to make you laugh. A virgin's first encounter with a girl that culminates in a massage oil rubdown gets more than messy and squanders too much, thus not earning any laughs. A scene where Van Wilder has to charm a raggedy and prunish administrator gets frighteningly explicit and goes on maybe one shot too many. But Van Wilder is always the man of the moment. One of the dorky characters goes to Van Wilder to ask him how to `muff dive.' Ultimately, Van Wilder is king and his rebel-bent philosophy is trippingly funny. At the end, you won't be able to remember all the funny scenes because there are just too many of them.  "},{"Title":"Don't believe the critics (this is a great movie)","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, don't believe the critics on this one. If you get this on DVD you can safely fast-forward through the two over-the-top gross out scenes that virtually assured this movie would get terrible reviews. The rest is pure comic genius in the often amusing, but rarely outstanding, field of teen/college comedy. This is my new favorite movie!ps. The best jokes in this movie rely on sex or sexual inuendo. If you don't like either you can safely count this movie out, but then again, you probably knew that already. "},{"Title":"Ok, nothing new, but sill light and funny","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Now that I am into my thirties I find most movies cliché and uninteresting, especially the action genre, SWAT, Face Off, Swordfish, XXX, Shaft, do I need to continue.  Yet people for some reason actually pay money to see these films.  I've started to enter my pompous intellectual phase, yet I still have a big weakness for teen movies.Animal house, Ferris, Weird Science, Bachelor Party and more recently a resurgence with American Pie, Road Trip, Have the Cow and Van Wilder.All of these films are great, IMO.  Sure they are predictable, a bit cliché, sometimes gross and certainly a bit childish, but they are bloody funny.  The only rule for a comedy is to be funny.   I guess that if we are honest that period of our lives should be best.  At least you have the innocence and optimism to know your life is all in front of you and getting laid and having fun, is pretty much the only thing on your mind (that hasn't changed if we are honest).I am disappointed that so many people criticise a film that clearly wasn't meant to be taken too seriously and is genuinely funny.  Great stuff please may it continue. "},{"Title":"Likable, familiar college comedy gets an appealing performance from the lead actor.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is one of the coolest, nicest, likable and most popular guy at the Coolidge College. He's also has an personal assistant (Kal Penn). Wilder is great at throwing parties and helping students with their courses at their most outrageous moments but since Wilder is at his seventh year as senior and he never takes his future seriously. Graduation for Wilder is the furthest thing is his mind. Things are about to change, when an young attractive reporter (Tara Reid) try to figure out Wilder's wild life. Wilder's father (Tim Matheson) threatens to stop paying his tuition for the seventh time. Wilder, His Personal Assistant and His Buddy (Teck Holmes) will try find ways to keep Wilder in college. But there's a slimly college student (Daniel Cosgrove), who is the boyfriend of the reporter. This jerk will do anything to get Wilder out of college.Directed by Walt Becker (Buying the Cow, Wild Hogs) made an smoothly surprisingly well done outrageous comedy with a couple of very funny scenes (With also one hilarious gross-out scene is actually disgustingly memorable, if you like it or not). Reynolds' appealing performance makes this college comedy film fun to watch. It is also better than most of these silly college movies and this one offers something fresh. This film was an modest hit at the box office. It was also one of the top selling DVD's of 2002.This unrated DVD has an clean anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer an good-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD menus have an censored and uncensored options. The second disc is packed with extras, includingDeleted Scenes, Outtakes, Behind the Scenes featurettes and more. This film is a lot of fun, if you don't think about it too much. Written by the writers of The Girl Next DoorBrent Goldberg and David T. Wagner. Deon Richmond, Erik Estrada and Chris Owen appears in cameos. Paul Gleason (From The Breakfest Club fame), Curtis Armstrong (Bugger from Revenge of the Nerds films) and UnbilledTom Everett Scott appears in small supporting roles. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Terribly Tasteless but Hilariously Funny","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is exactly what you expect from the genre mindless fluff with adolescent jokes, nudity, and lots of gross-out stuff. It is, however, unapologetic about it, and invests a lot to carry things to the extreme, which is what gives it its charm. If you cannot take any of the above and find enjoyment in them, don't waste your time with Van Wilder.If, on the other hand, you like vomit-inducing pranks, beautiful young girls flashing their boobies, and hilarious one-liners galore peppered by a huge dose of stereotypes (but without hatred), you will have one of the most entertaining 2 hours of your life. Every time it plays on TV I find myself watching it again and again. The two leading male actors, Ryan Reynolds and Kal Penn, are exceptional as usual, and Tara Reid, while she offers her customary wooden non-performance, fills out her role enough not to be painful. A surprise find is the actor playing Tara's boyfriend he plays so well, you will LOVE to hate him.All I can say is, with college for 20 years behind me, I wish I had a Van Wilder when I was attending school. And the movie even has a message! "},{"Title":"I can't believe I sat through this - spoilers","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had the displeasure of watching Van Wilder for the first and last time last night. Oh  how it still burns in my head. This poor film suffers from some odd sort of cinematic  schizophrenia sometimes it thinks it wants to be animal house as it's stereotypical  frat-boy-cum-slave-driver uses unidentified and nameless students as croquet posts  and tunnels, and sometimes it wants to be a sentimental love story. This movie feels like  a string of barely related pranks and humor that was patch-worked together with  something akin to a plot. Our hero, the amiable and misguided but otherwise kind  hearted Van Wilder is every college boys wet dream of a self-image Intelligent but not  too intelligent, clever with comebacks, interested in finer things like love and friends  and disinterested in having a life revolving around work, living off his fathers bank  account, campus celebrity, blah blah blah.... I'm sure you've probably seen this before  and it was much better as a high school movie called Fast Times at Ridgemont High, or  was it Animal House, or maybe this film just tries to lamely take concepts from these  better films and update them for a newer audience. Whatever it is it's pure crap.I've never seen such sick humor outside of a Troma Studios movie. At least with a  Troma release you expect lots of feces, vomit, sick humor involving children and a plot  as absurd as the premise. But in Van Wilder you get all the vomit, sperm and abuse with  a plot they think you might care about. Boy has it good, boy gets told by father that he  will not receive more easy money, boy has roaring good time as he crunches many  business opportunities to raise money so he can continue with his chosen looserly  lifestyle, boy meets overtly-cute pseudo-intelligent girl who wants an interview for the school paper, and wait for the supprise... Boy falls in love with girl who has boyfriend in  the snottiest frat on campus. Bet you didn't see that coming. Bet you don't see the friction, pranks and insults that go on between Frat boy and Van Wilder. But then again,  I am sure you do.The shining moments of the movie are only so because they will stay burned in your  brain for days afterwards. Take for instance the continual shots of Van's bulldog's  obviously fake, over-sized testicles which will fill your screen on occasion. You will get  endlessly entertained by swaying testicles, floating hot-tub testicles, Van kissing dog  testicles in an early morning supprise. As if the large testicles weren't enough we get  one of the most disturbing scenes in movie history when Van plots revenge against his  rival, the boyfriend of the main love interest of course, by removing the cream filling of  eclairs using gynecological instruments only to be refilled by having his friend  masturbate the dog to create a new and exciting filling. But wait! There's more! Once the  many eclairs are full and the dogs testicles are now down to a normal, smaller pair, they  are placed casually and suspiciously outside the snotty frat-house. Oh the horror as for  quite a while we are treated to many frat boys voraciously enjoying every gooey, warm,  drippy, clear drop of the dog sperm from the eclair as they make obvious comments like  Wow, they're still warm and I think I have had these before. Trust me, much time is  dedicated to this scene and.... Damn. I used to love eclairs.There is a lot of really easy and simple humor in this movie. Let's have an Indian  student talk about dirty sex as it will be funny just for that accent. Or maybe we can get  elementary school kids drunk and have them projectile vomit. Let's have strippers who  fart smoke, that's cool.?? This movie has none of the charm of Beavis and Butthead,  none of the stylistic unapologetic crassness of a Troma Film, And the plot is soooooo  predictable and merely a rehash of almost every bad college film in history. It's the same  plot as One Crazy Summer but not even close to funny and that film used Curtis Armstrong in a way that we all laughed at. In this film he has been degraded to a  momentary laugh and no character at all. No body in this film gets fleshed out, the only  thing remote to character development is the exchange student gets laid and Van Wilder comes to understand why he hasn't left college in 7 years and trust me that part is  about as deep as a dog-bowl.I wish I had something nice to say about this movie. Even Showgirls is enjoyable for  it's embarrassing attempt at seriousness, but this piece of work has no redeeming  qualities. The only truly funny moment is as the credits roll and we see some of the  behind the scenes pranks with several characters playing up homosexual elements that  were only hinted at in the film. I'm sorry but I can't even recommend this film. Avoid it  all costs. "}{"Title":"I will never eat a creamstick again!","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not a fan of gross out humor, but there was something about this movie that cracked me up.  I absolutely LOVE Ryan Reynolds. I think he is a gifted comedian, and this was a great forum for him to get himself out there. I thought the dog jokes were extremely gross, especially the eclair scene, and I will NEVER be able to eat another one again! (Also, custard now makes me gag. )) I enjoyed Taj, and thought the actor did a great job with that role. I imagine it was difficult to do with a straight face.The one thing I did not like about the movie was TARA REID.  How in God's green earth did this girl EVER get into movies. The ONLY thing I have ever liked her in was Scrubs, and I think it's because she seems truer to that character.  The outtakes at the end are good, so don't turn it off too soon. "},{"Title":"Don't expect too much","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is yet another movie trying to capitalize off the gross-out factor among young adolescent males.  The only thing that really surprised me about this movie is Ryan Renolds ability to carry a movie by himself, as Tara Reid has proven herself once again to be a terrible actress.  There is maybe one or two really funny parts in this movie, the rest just comes off as immature sexual jokes.  Overall, the good parts don't outweigh the bad, and I wouldn't give it more than three or four stars.  Wait for it to come out on rental, which shouldn't be too long. "},{"Title":"I Hate Movies Like This","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just don't understand why people will never get sick of these types of movies. I just don't see how anyone can think the jokes in this is funny. I do not see one thing in this movie that can be considered as funny. I really cannot say it enough.I mean, why can't they have some intelligent, well thought out circumstances? Instead they take the easy way out and use a sick-out method like dog ejaculate in pastries. The grosser something is does not make it funny.The acting was bad, the characters were not interesting, the story was stupid, and movies like this should not be made.The only reason why I did not give this a lower rating was because the Van Wilder character had good intentions and a good heart. All too often with movies like this you won't even have a redeeming characteristic like that, but instead you are given a jerk frat boy as the hero. This movie was very bad. "},{"Title":"bad, bad, bad, bad, oh god SO BAAAAAD","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't even know how to start... I'm fed up with these kind of disgusting, stupid teenage films. I haven't a clue why would somebody find this film funny. It's full off annoying, sickening, insufferable jokes. After watching this film i thought i won't be able to eat, or look at dogs or masculine human beings again. And not just that. There's a name in the cast that can make you sure of this film's awfulness. Tara Reid... I can't imagine how could this chick get into the movie business. To call her an actress is a big overdrawn, she is just a classic blondie who looks perfectly unintelligent at the first sight.Anyway... i can't write down this film's story, and the reason is very simple. It hasn't got a story. I have to stop now or i sware i'll go mad. Just PLEASE don't watch it. In behalf of your-self. "},{"Title":"In a nutshell - thoroughly offensive","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The low-points of modern, western civilization are blatantly displayed in this film and others of this genre. I have yet to see a commercial American film targeted at youths that doesn't contain toilet humour, cheap Hollywood starlets, drugs, gratuitous sex and clichéd characters. Every single character in this film is a token stereotype, even the dog. The acting by the female lead is particularly uninspiring and makes me wonder what made her get a role in a major motion picture to begin with when there are so many better actresses around.On the other hand, the writer does have a knack for detail and cohesion in an otherwise asinine plot and manages to somewhat redeem the characters towards the end.  "},{"Title":"Poor National Lampoon","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" National Lampoon used to create masterpieces like the original Vacation and Animal House. Seems that somebody decided that movie audiences didn't need, or didn't get, the intelligent nuances in movies like that and they could just churn out pieces of crap like this movie and reach a wider audience. I had heard about this film for years and finally decided to check it out. What a waste of my time. I not only didn't laugh, I didn't even crack a smile. This film seems to be about 30% bad Animal House rip offs and 70% Police Academy IV Citizens On Patrol! Remember the opening scene in Animal House where they zoom in on the plaque at the bottom of the bronze statue of the school's founder? His great quote is Knowledge is good. That's the kind of subtle intelligent humor thread that wends through a good comedy that makes the outrageous stuff (like Bluto in the cafeteria) all the more hilarious. Van Wilder has none of that intelligence, going instead for slow 13-year-olds as its target market. I'm no prude and I love outrageous humor, Team America and Idiocracy are 2 of my favorite films and I'm a big Family Guy and South Park fan. But, for all the irreverence, off-color humor and occasional grossness, those things also have lots of intelligence in them as well. Don't look for that in this turkey. Van Wilder is a waste of time and sad testimony to how low Lampoon has sunk. "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining - just remember to disengage your brain","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I generally hate these teen sex comedies and I approached Van Wilder with hesitation, but I actually found it to be quite entertaining and humorous (if you're in the right mood, I suppose).Ryan Reynolds (doing a great Chevy Chase impersonation) is a guy in his late 20s who has been at college for eight years and still doesn't have a graduation in sight. His father, a rich politician (played by Tim Matheson), finally decides to cut off his son's money and as a result, Van has to think of a way to come up with enough cash to stay in school.Pretty soon Van becomes a party planner and uses his knowledge on partying to throw great ones for nerds. He makes money off of it and his business soon becomes quite lucrative.If you like National Lampoon humor, you may like this. If you don't, you probably won't. I gave up on National Lampoon a long time ago but this is one of their better efforts in recent years. Don't get me wrong, it's not a great movie; but I found Reynolds (who seems to pick up a lot of flak) to be quite funny and Matheson and other ex-Lampoon star cameos were amusing.Recommended for those who can enjoy stupid humor. If you liked Dumb and Dumber, you'll probably enjoy this. "},{"Title":"don't waste your time and money on this one!!!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie had some promise.  i had an idea it was going to suck, but i didn't think it would be as bad as it was.  National Lampoon's has ruined their name by attaching it to this dimwit, college comedy.  there are maybe 3 parts in the movie which provoked a chuckle, the rest is just dumb comedy.  I gave it a rating of 2. "},{"Title":"Awful, purely and utterly awful...","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly one of the worst comedy movies I've ever seen and probably the most disgusting of them all. The pastry scene was not only crude and desperate, but also extremely disgusting and not funny. Ryan Reynolds is funny, but other than him, the entire movie is nothing but a parade of pretty faces in a very bad script with no comedy. "},{"Title":"Nothing new here...","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder was the very definition of formula movie.  Everything that is done in this movie can be seen in a million other movies.  It's also done a lot better in those million other movies.  Ryan Reynolds was decent as Van Wilder... not that it was a very tough role too play.  Tara Reid served as the eye candy that she normally plays... nothing special here.  If you feel like seeing this movie, do yourself a favor and just rent Animal House or American Pie. "}{"Title":"Overall, not a BAD movie","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this movie tried to be a cross between a light-hearted comedy and a gross-out film in the tradition of Animal House and American Pie. Sadly, it could not achieve a satisfactory balance. The light-heartedness for the most part was good, however, the gross-out factor was for the most part gratuitous. As a point, there is one scene in the movie (you'll know which one if you watch it) where the sole purpose was to gross the audience out. And it lasted entirely too long. They could have achieved the same affect in under a minute, however the scene lasted what felt like at least five minutes. Note do NOT eat before watching this film, you will regret it. Ryan Reynolds played his part quite well. This type of comedy, he excels at. It is a shame that the plot's turning point uses almost no logic. The WORST part of this movie was Gwen, as played by Tara Reid. Apparently, she is under the misguided belief that being a good actress means staring intensely in every scene. It's a comedy!, for crying out loud, and yet Tara continuously looks as though a doctor is informing her that a loved one only has a few hours left to live. In conclusion, watching it on VHS/DVD is probably your best bet. That way you can fast forward through the more disgusting scenes and most of Tara's performance. "},{"Title":"One Word Crap.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is really nothing redeemable to even mention in this horror of film making. Ryan Reynolds is appealing, and so is Tara Reid but the movie itself is one long bad joke whap up in a blanket of recycle bad jokes of bad movies of the past.  Please, walk away from this one. "},{"Title":"Utter Crap.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Someone at National Lampoon seems to think they can recreate the success of their legendary college comedy Animal House.  While I admit lots of really really bad movies targeted to young people these days have had some success, I have faith in my generation, that they will avoid this crap college flick, like they would avoid the cops when transporting alcohol in their backpacks to their desired party destination when they are underage.  While I like to joke about college as much as the next guy, Van Wilder seems to have been written from every played out, cliche bit of college humor and comedy, rarely a  scenario being close to accurate of real college life either.  "},{"Title":"Terrible from start to finish","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the worst movies I have ever seen, and I have seen many many movies. Very predictable plot with no originality. The plot points seem to come straight from the mind of an uneducated 15 year old with no inkling of comedic dialog or situations. Although the lead actor was supposed to appear as a hero to his fellow students, he never supported that in anyway with his behavior on the screen. I guess we are just supposed to assume that he is 'all that'. I felt sorry for the actors having to say these ridiculous lines. Maybe the young teenage crowd would find this entertaining for the crude humor and flowery language, but anyone over the age of 17 should pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Should go down in history as the first gay college comedy","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film, so far, is a genre all it's own. The genre it wants you to believe it fits into, would be the college comedy, the T&A, gross-out, bodily function type of film, minus the T&A, it has all that, but with a twist, a big gay twist. There was a point fairly early in this film when the characters go to a strip club, and I said, after seeing what had come before,if there is no female nudity in THIS scene, the director is completely gay. Now of course, he said back-pedaling, I don't know the director, or his sexual orientation, but it sure seems if he's not gay, he intended to make, as I said, the first Gay college comedy Now there's nothing wrong with making a gay college comedy, but hey, market it that way, let people know up front that there will be lots of male nudity, jokes about a dogs testicles, and jokes about men ingesting the issue of said testicles, men pulling down their pants and having explosive diarea into waste paper baskets. In my belief there are certain ingredients present to one degree or another in these types of films, and one you can't get away from is female nudity. See Road Trip to see this formula at it's modern (okay...90's) apex, Amy Smart goes topless, while in Van Wilder Tara Reid, decided not to show what many who watched assumed they'd see. There should be, in my opinion, a law, or at least a contract rider that says if you want to appear in a college comedy, (Miss Reid) you've got to show off what the public wants, and expects, and if not, well, hire another actress, but as I said, that's just my opinion. Now nudity, male or female won't make an unfunny movie funny, or worth sitting through, but at least it might feel like a reward for sitting through something at horrible, and unfunny as this movie. But if you feel like conducting your own experiment in terror, watch this, but get a copy of Road Trip as a palate cleanser for afterwards, it's not Citizen Kane, but it's amusing and the man who directed it finds new and interesting ways to expose the female form, the thing that many will be expecting to see when they watch this type of movie. And as a last note, I'm not gay bashing, I'm Van Wilder bashing! "},{"Title":"Two Words","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nearly Unwatchable.Approximately two small laughs and a decent performance by Ryan Reynolds... but the rest is absolute dreck.  Took everything I had not to pitch the set out into the parking lot.Not really even worth the $1.00 for the WEEKLY rental.Avoid! "},{"Title":"False Advertising","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Apparently some critic felt the need to make a name for himself and proclaimed this film to be Animal House for the new generation!...This film is nothing like Animal House. It couldn't be farther from it, for one simple reason. Van Wilder tries, and why it does I can't imagine, to wrap itself in sentiment and messages about maturity or something to that effect. It tries to come to a reasonable conclusion. In Animal House they just said F*** it and trashed the parade. Have screenwriters forgotten what made Animal House a classic? It wasn't the crude humor or the massive displays of lust, although those contributed. What made the Deltas great was the sense of unbridled anarchy that few teen films, if any, have captured since. Van Wilder is a disgrace to the National Lampoon logo and its creators should be stoned at the city gates. "},{"Title":"Van Milder","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ryan Reynolds is truly gifted, which is why he survived this disaster that only tacked on the National Lampoon name after it was finished in a vain attempt to link this campus comedy to Animal House, a true masterpiece compared to this complete and utter embarrassment. This movie tanked at the box office, even in the areas where the allure of air conditioning is a main draw. Who in their right mind would commit money to this fiasco except a group of real estate developers looking for a tax break, or perhaps some hillbillies who accidentally struck oil when they were out hunting for possums. Avoid at all costs. And you wonder why Tara Reid is now an E! Channel hostess? "},{"Title":"Pitiful rehash of Animal House","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The National Lampoon magazine folded during the filming of their Loaded Weapon 1 movie back in the 90s, and since then they've dished out nothing but weak remakes of earlier classics, and Van Wilder proves to be no exception. Ryan Reynolds is typically annoying as the title character who frees his college from studying and the ideal to better oneself and turns it into a party-zone with the help of recycled gags, predictable one-liners, and a slew of bad supporting actors and actresses. You probably liked this better however, when it featured John Belushi and was called Animal House. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the century!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is without a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen.  The main character, chosen no doubt for his uncanny resemblance to a young Chevy Chase, is funny but the plot simply does not exist.The gags (when they're there) are trite, hackneyed, and old as rock.  This movie will even die in videoland.In my 47 years of life, I have seen a lot of movies.  I have walked out on better movies than this.  I did leave 10 minutes before the end because after I visited the bathroom I just wanted to get back into my car and go home.Not a good movie! "}{"Title":"Terrible, truly terrible","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This effort attempts to be the new century's version of Animal House and it throws every thing but the kitchen sink into the works in an attempt to create that image.. It fails miserably. Not only does the concept itself feel dated, but the execution is so horrendously bad that one can't help but cringe at every line of dialouge or story point in the film. Featuring some of the worst acting this side of Pauley Shore from newcommer Ryan Reynolds (apparently channeling Chevy Chase) and veteran teen film actress Tara Reid (whose acting seems to get worse and worse with each performance, if that is possible). Add in poor production values (everything from the boom being in the shot to continuity errors to bad sound mix) and a gratuitous use of contemporary pop songs in an attempt to sell sound tracks and what do you get? A waste of your money! Avoid this film unless you have a burning desire to watch typical wiseass movie frat boys get their jollies by devouring dog semen. GRADE F "},{"Title":"Brutally awful","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked American Pie 1 and 2 and I laughed my way through Not Another Teen Movie and Scary Movie but Van Wilder was dreadful. It's trying to be a modern day Animal House, but there's absolutely nothing in this movie that hasn't been done better a million times before. Van Wilder's jokes were more gross than funny. I didn't find the main character interesting on any level whatsoever, which is bad news since the whole movie revolves around him. All the supporting characters, including all of Van's buddies as well as the frat boy villains, were ludicrous caricatures of characters that have appeared in other, much funnier movies.I watched this movie on the same day that I saw American Pie 2 and the differences between the two were striking. Both would appear to be going for the same audience but while I thought American Pie 2 was funny, entertaining, and even sweet in a juvenile sort of way, Van Wilder I just found revolting. Even in a sex comedy you have to be interested in the characters and story on some level and in American Pie I liked Jim and his friends and found myself relating to many of their situations and experiences. However, in Van Wilder, the leading pair of Van (Ryan Reynolds) and Gwen (Tara Reid) is as boring and uninteresting as I've ever seen in a movie. Throw in some gross scenes of dog masturbation and you have one pretty awful movie. Overall, I can say for a fact that this wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen. Jaws 4 The Revenge was definitely worse, but this one's right up there. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Today's comfort - it doesn't get any worse than this.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I tried to watch this, but had give up after 10 minutes. It was very irritating watching this movie about a spoiled man/boy, who really needed to get some suicide-help. That would be the best thing for him. You have seen it all before, but much better performed - it's like they were aiming at a college-film that contains EVERY possible cliche available. Save your time, money and mind - let it be left alone in the store! "},{"Title":"has it moments","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I will say this about National Lampoon's films of late---they are getting funnier--AND maybe someday, the movies they crank out now will be as good as the earlier ones they released.  The movie Van Wilder is OKAY, but I'm sure they could have done a bit better in churning up the laughs--everything is too heavily relied on gross humour.  The acting needed to be more memorable too.  Tara Reid--although looking great--had little acting range--she just seemed to go through the motions of the film.  Her character and Ryan Reynolds character had no real chemistry between them and the that made Kal Penn's character steal the majority of the film. Granted we shouldn't laugh at our fellow foreign exchange students, but we also shouldn't be made to pay over $5 for a mediocre film also. If anyone is thinking of purchasing this film---my suggestion is to rent it first.  This movie is a I'm willing to waste a couple of hours of my day movie.  "},{"Title":"Party animal","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is the eternal student at Coolidge College where he has been studying for seven years but yet to graduate. The reason is because he enjoys the raucous party lifestyle where he is respected and held in esteem by other students.Things take a turn when Wilder's dad stops his allowance and the student newspaper journalist wants to expose his party lifestyle. When some under-age kids are found by the police drinking in one of his parties Van Wilder's college days seem to be numbered and he decides he finally needs to grow up, realise his potential and graduate while taking revenge on the local college jock who got him into trouble.The film is a cross between Animal House and American Pie. Tim Matheson who plays Van Wilder's father appeared in Animal House and Tara Reid who plays the student paper journalist appeared in American Pie.There is also plenty of gross out humour such as éclairs filled with dog semen or a protein shake laced with laxatives. There is the added sub-plot of Wilder's assistant, an Indian exchanges student, Taj Mahal wanting to have sex with an American girl and getting into all sorts of scrapes like setting himself on fireReynolds injects enough heart and decency in Van Wilder to actually make you root for him and it is amusing enough with bad taste pranks to make you laugh several times. "},{"Title":"Gets a passing grade","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Van Wilder' certainly doesn't attempt to reinvent the wheel, sticking beat for beat with your standard college/slacker comedy, but like its star, Ryan Reynolds, it's an amiable enough flick that gets by more on its likability, fast pace and fun atmosphere than an abundance of laugh out loud gags.The aforementioned Reynolds is backed up by an equally likable, if perhaps culturally stereotypical, performance from Kal Penn. Together they make a solid comedic Batman and Robin. The rest of the cast fill in nicely around them, with only the talent-challenged Tara Reid seemingly out of her depth. Scary when you think about just how shallow 'Van Wilder' is. "},{"Title":"Teenagers may get a kick out of it, but that is about it!!","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cashing in on the success of the American Pie movies comes this American Pie meets Ferris Bueller knock off. Hell it even stars one of the lead actress's from the American Pie franchise Tara Reid. Even though she is really thin here and seems to sleep walk through her role, this was still her pre rent a wreck era.But she is just there as a bit of stunt casting (to evoke memories of the Pie franchise) as this is really all about the Ryan Reynolds as the title character. He is the best thing about this movie, but he is a good looking safe bit of casting. A Jack Black on the other hand, would have smashed the role out of the park, and took the movie to the next level.Kal Pen is awful as the stereotypical Indian sidekick, and I have never known how he continues to have an acting career. His delivery of lines in his fake accent is dire and is worse when he tried to do comedy in his real voice (see his woeful turn as Kevin in How I Met Your mother) look out for a pre Big Bang Theory Simon Helberg in a small supporting role too. The movie is just a rehash of lots of other movies!! Boy meets girl, boy gets girl, boy loses girl, (queue music montage of both of them looking miserable) boy gets girl back at the end! Or the obviously brilliant slacker is coasting trough life, meets girl and after an initial dislike, fall in love and she shows him the error of his ways or even boy meets girl, but girl has a boyfriend (who is a sleazy jerk) who happens to be out to destroy our hero, after showing girl, how evil her boyfriend is, she falls in to boys arms.... They are all here!! Whilst there are many quotable lines, I was cringe worthy silent during most of this movie, and with the exception of one or two scenes there are not a lot of laughs to be had.Teenagers may get a kick out of it, but that is about it!! "},{"Title":"Didn't Make Me Genuinely Laugh Once,","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder Party Liaison is an awful movie with a storyline that seemed interesting but turned out terrible and a great comedic cast that are wasted by a brutal script.The movie is just one ridiculous joke after another,I literally didn't properly laugh at any scene,a lot of parts were just purposely disgusting,like the part with the dog and the twinkies,I don't see how anyone could write something like that and expect people to find it funny instead of just plain gross.I really like Ryan Reynolds as an actor and he's gone on to prove after this film that he can definitely act,but Van Wilder was just an annoying character that I found very unlikeable and wasn't rooting for him throughout this film,the only character who's scenes I enjoyed in any way was Kal Penn's character.Van Wilder Party Liaison is a terrible movie that I wouldn't recommend to anyone. Van Wilder,a student who's been attending college for seven years and showing no sign of leaving,realizes that he is afraid to face the real world when a journalist starts writing about him. Best Performance Kal Penn Worst Performance Daniel CosgroveIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"Ryan Reynolds only reason to watch this","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is the man around campus but hasn't graduated after 7 years. His father is tired, and stops payment for his education. So he starts interesting money making schemes. Student reporter Gwen Pearson (Tara Reid) needs to do a story on him. Taj (Kal Penn) is a new student under the tutelage of Van Wilder.This is Ryan Reynolds and only Ryan Reynolds. He is the only thing that keeps this movie afloat. He has the boyish charm that lets him get away with all kinds of hijinx. The movie gathers all the college silliness in a myriad of other movies, and shoves it into this one. And Ryan Reynolds delivers it all with joyful glee. He is the only driving force behind this movie. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" National Lampoon's Van WilderEconomically speaking, most parents would likely prefer to have a permanent high school student as a child than a permanent college student.Unfortunately, the father in this comedy has the latter.After seven-years of loafing through college, Van Wilder's (Ryan Reynolds) dad (Tim Matheson) has enough and cuts off all funding to his son.Forced to go it alone, Van makes an agreement with school heads that he can cram a year's worth of information into his head in six days, and finally graduate.But that won't be easy, as Van is in a prank-off with a fraternity brother that doesn't like him hitting on his girlfriend Gwen (Tara Reid).More gross-out comedy than genuine laughs, for some reason Van Wilder has had a cult-like following that relished its over-the-top sexual perversions, and revel in the leads blasé nature.Incidentally, the ultimate college prank is convincing students to buy textbooks. Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "}{"Title":"Van Wilder Debauchery Liaison","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's definitely hard to make a movie if it has anything to do with teenagers or even those in their 20s in the 21th century. That's like having to make a happy movie about concentration camps in the Second World War. America's (and the West's) moral decline has hit rock bottom and movies like Van Wilder shamelessly capitalize on that. Anyone can write a screenplay like the one behind Van Wilder. All you need to have is the imagination of a teenager who hasn't outgrown his puberty and hasn't ever learned responsibility or anything beyond his sexual frustrations that are so out of control that sex becomes his entire universe. Unfortunately, such imagination resembles actual reality today, as is statistically evident. MTV capitalizes on that all the time, such as with 16 and Pregnant (2009), Teen Mom (2009), etc. So a movie these days that has anything to do with teenagers can't possibly be a comedy, but nothing less than a hardcore drama to say the least, unless you consider the sky high divorce rates and incredibly declining birthrates and out of wedlock birthrates of today to be funny.Van Wilder is one of the most disgusting movies that has ever been made. College is portrayed as a post Woodstock festival (which by itself was already out of control) where all the females are shameless disgusting whores who will have sex with anyone, at any time, any place, any way and all the guys are equally sexually insane. Van Wilder almost borders with zoophilia, that's how far the sex obsession goes. There is in fact little indication that college is actually supposed to be about education and preparing for the real life. Nope, when sex is your universe/god/everything and having an orgasm is the most important thing in your life, then everything can (and is, in this movie) thrown in the trash can. That's what this movie is all about that sex, sex and if you didn't get it the first billion times, it's about sex. Oh and in case I forget, it's about sex. How about the story? Sex. How about actually having a point? Sex. How about the comedy? Sex. How about entertainment? Sex. Was Ryan Reynolds good in this movie? Sex. Tara Reid? Sex. Kal Penn was in this movie as well. Oh, sex. To complete it all, think of jokes about bodily fluids, drug smoking and tough guy blacks and you have got yourself a movie that can only be produced by a mentally insane society.Gore is not scary, it's not going to automatically result into a good horror movie. Likewise, grossness is not funny, it's not going to automatically result into a good comedy movie. Just because people like to have sex doesn't mean that a movie that is obsessed about sex is going to automatically result into a good movie. Having to even to write a review to point these things out (yes, it has to be done when a movie like this gets a rating above 5) shows how far down the toilet society has gone. Can it even get any worse? It wouldn't matter. "},{"Title":"Superb! Excellent!","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe I didn't watch this movie sooner. Ryan Reynolds plays the main character, Van Wilder, who is a college student at Coolidge that has been going there for 7 years. His reputation of being an party animal made him ultra popular, known and loved by everyone at school...well almost everyone that is. The stunning Tara Reid, who personally I thought looked the hottest she has ever looked...ever, plays a young journalist who is assigned to write about Van. When her boyfriend, a intelligent frat boy who has his life set for the next 10 years, gets hold of this information he is not happy. He sets out to ruin him. My opinion is this. I loved it, and I have no idea how you can think any bad of it. If your watching this your most likely an adult, so grow some balls like Colossus and get over the gross scenes...they're hilarious! Ryan Reynolds carried this movie, he was spectacular. Taj's character was a great addition and was a good assistant. He had many funny moments that kept me laughing throughout the whole movie! And Tara Reid. I haven't seen any other movies she was in, but God DAMN was she gorgeous. She acted pretty damn well & fit the role really really well. Her intertwined with the story and everything, pretty much portrays my dream girl. She is INCREDIBLY sexy, and for fuck's sake she can play hockey! (In the movie not in real life). And oh man the ending...that last scene...is like a perfect visual of like the perfect situation for a guy. Being a guy like Van struggling the entire movie for that one girl that was just not that easy to get than any other girl. The plot was very original, and the story through the whole movie was great. Excellent movie, a classic and a legend, I give it 10/10. P.S. Watching this movie right before my first year in college is making my imagination run wild man...I'm hyped! "},{"Title":"Van really is the Man!","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie sure has gotten (more than) its share of bad user reviews! So many 1 star reviews, i can hardly believe it. And still it comes out with a 6+ star score. That is in itself very, very interesting.There is much grossness in this movie, that is true. Or to be more precise there are some scenes that are extremely gross - but not many. There is no doubt in my mind that a lot of viewers will be offended by those scenes, and as a result have their whole experience ruined.The story in the movie is very simple Van Wilder is still in College, for the 7th year in a row. It's basically just a theme that is elaborated upon.Here is my take on the movie the elaboration on that theme is hilariously, expertly, joyfully, sympathetically well done. There is subtlety in this movie, if you care to look for it. I loved the characters, especially Van and Taj Mahal. I loved the way the story progressed, and how the dialog was written. But most of all i loved how all the actors gave everything to the movie. There is no holding back, no this movie is so stupid that I'm not gonna do my best kind of attitude. It shows that all the actors (yes, ALL the actors) loved every second of it.Too bad that some of the viewers didn't feel the same way, and that is, of course, their loss. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Van Wilder' isn't meant to be taken too seriously. Its a lively comedy, that delivers good enough laughs to earn itself a viewing. 'Van Wilder' Synopsis The most popular kid on campus meets a beautiful journalist who makes him realize that maybe he's afraid to graduate.'Van Wilder' has some hilarious moments. The First-Hour is simply terrific, the Second-Hour gets clichéd, but never boring. Brent Goldberg & David T. Wagner's Screenplay is uncomplicated & delivers some truly funny moments. Walt Becker's Direction is perfect. Performance-Wise Ryan Reynolds is superb as Van Wilder. He plays the bratty protagonist to the fullest. Tara Reid is extremely charming. Kal Penn brings the house down with his flawless comic timing. Daniel Cosgrove delivers sincerely. Tim Matheson is first-rate.On the whole, 'Van Wilder' offers some really good laughs. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I had hoped...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...but better than I feared.More bare breasts would have made it better. I saw the DVD not the cinemaversion. I don't know what the difference is. I could have used a better defined  person for the lead. The guy who played Van Wilder is much to vanilla pudding.  Van Wilder should have been played by someone more memorable.I liked all the in-jokes and comments. "},{"Title":"Can't hold a candle","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In brief, this was a disappointment.  Some of the jokes were passable and Cal Kitt, or whatever his name is was amusing, but all in all, I feel there was too damn little nudity, too little humor and too few genuine sound effects. In no way can this even hold a candle to Animal House.May you bury your enemies in the garden of their own ideology,Moneybagzz "},{"Title":"A few good laughs, but American pie was way better!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie carried out a lot of grouse scenes and funny teen humour. I still think the best teen comedy is American Pie 1 and 2. The movie was alright, it should have a lot of more teen humour, to much of adult humour, you can get tired of seeing that threw out the whole movie. Honestly, I think the best Lampoons movie is Animal House nothing beats that one. I give this movie a B-  "},{"Title":"Funny if you like disgusting gags","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I felt before the movie that it was going to be horrible.  I was slightly wrong.  I got some laughs out of it, but most of the film was comprised of sick jokes.  I recommend watching this film if you are into those kind of jokes.  I found myself laughing quite a bit.  The movie's jump at a love story was kind of lame, but it was an ok film. "},{"Title":"Sigh.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was decent for a stupid comedy.  I call it a stupid comedy because I mean just that.  It's dumb.  There are some perks to it, such as a hell of a lot of charm from the main characters.  It has some genuine Animal House comedy, that evokes those great memories, but then again, it can be viewed as a P.C.U. style cheap imitation.  Another thing I never quite understand is Hollywood's (or at least in comedy) infatuation with the male genitalia. For some reason those jokes never quite do it for me.  But, I guess this is from my own ignorance as the rest of the theater was in stitches.  I must have missed the joke.  Aside from an over-abundance of stupid gross-out gags it wasn't awful.  What's funny about semen and feces?  I don't get it. Now Monty Python could maybe do something okay with it, but these guys just show it to you and ask you to laugh.  I wish I could.  My eyes are getting tired from all the rolling. "},{"Title":"Making college a wonderful place to be...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING This review MAY contain spoilers.  Those who want to know what I thought can keep reading.  The rest of you can go somewhere else.  You have been warned. Now, on to the review Welcome to Coolidge College.  Ready to meet and greet you is Coolidge's favorite student, Van Wilder. Van Wilder is a student in his seventh year of college, with no amibition driving him to a degree.  He hasn't declared a major, and brings new meaning to campus living.  Ryan Reynolds plays Vance Van Wilder Jr., who is beginning the spring semester by hiring a new assistant and planing parties for everyone on campus.  When his father, Vance Wilder (cameo by Animal House frat boy Tim Matheson) arrives and informs his son that he stopped payment on his tuition check, Van will do anything to make money to pay for college, as well as win over the affections of Gwen (Tara Reid), a school newspaper reporter looking for a big story. This movie was by far a ridiculous concept, but like all National Lampoon movies before it, it was way too much fun to resist watching.  Not only was Reynolds a hottie, but he was fun!  He is almost like a young Jim Carrey. Although some of this film was, at times, disgusting, I loved it!  The bulldog walking around with the disturbingly huge balls was outlandish and comical.  I feel bad for the poor animal, the hapless soul who had to drag those big sacs around. My favorite parts were when Van was interviewing new assistants, and they kept showing Erik Estrada, whose toupee kept coming off.  Yuck!  get rid of him, **spoiler**when the old Oriental lady was bent over in front of Van's crotch sucking on something, and he was saying over and over again You do great work.  Keep your eyes on it, not on me.  We then realized that she was sucking on a lollipop and was measuring his inseam, but us deviated perverts took it completely out of context.  Also the part with the dog masterbating into the pastries was disgusting, but you couldn't resist looking away.  There were so many funny parts to name, and limited space to do so in. As a college student, I couldn't say that I ever met anyone like Van Wilder, but I would sure love to, because he was so funny.  IAll in all, this was a great film, with plenty of memorable moments.  Look for cameos by Booger from Revenge of the Nerds and the Principal from Breakfast Club (You know, the guy raided Barry Manilow's wardrobe).  I garuantee that you will enjoy this film. Don't graduate, celebrate!  Wow, taglines are good!  "}{"Title":"Another college life comedy -- nothing outstanding.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  VAN WILDER  *+__  Romantic Comedy /  Ryan Reynolds, Tara Reid, Kal PennVan Wilder is a professional college student. He loves college life, and is popular with both students and faculty. But he's been in college for seven years, and hasn't graduated. Then Van's father cuts off the money.This ain't ANIMAL HOUSE. It's just another college life comedy -- nothing outstanding. Though it is very gross at times, it has a moral at the end. Both Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid turn in fine performances. No car chases or explosions.   "},{"Title":"Great if you believe American Pie is top-notch comedy","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The gross moments in Van Wilder make the pie-love in American Pie seem quite tame.  During these moments, you'll be on the floor if this is your brand of comedy.  The film executes its gross scenes well by stretching them out and adding disgusting close-ups of the action (Too gross to describe, you have to see it). If the movie had stuck solely with brainless disgust and relied on your gut-wrenching sense of humor, it would have been better.  Instead, it attempts at many times to have intelligent dialogue, and the effort in the context of the film's overt grossness is cheesy at best.  The movie seemed pulled by two producers--one, an old-time National Lampoon man who uses dry wit and satire; the other, a thirty-something MTV exec who knows 18-year-olds love to be grossed out.  The first half of Wilder is much more enjoyable because it doesn't rely on puke.  Ryan Reynolds (Wilder, a popular 7-year college student) and Kal Pen (as Wilder's personal assistant) give very funny performances in that first half. What's a shame is that Ryan Reynolds showed a good deal of talent reminiscent of Tim Matheson's Otter in Animal House.  (Matheson plays Wilder's workaholic dad, by the way).  His wit takes a back seat, however, to less-funny, but vomit-worthy gags, and in the long run it's obvious the filmmakers just added some intelligent humor early so that the audience itself wouldn't throw up.  This makes the movie not much more than a big piece of fluff. Also, the women in Wilder are all ridiculously gorgeous, as if there are no ugly or even average girls going to college.  There's no problem showing girls as dumb bimbos when you're trying to satirize the college male attitude towards women.  But older college movies like Animal House and even PCU succeeded in that satirization while still having a lot of different types of girls on-screen, and not just beautiful ones.  Van Wilder's supposed answer to the brainlessness of most of the women is Tara Reid, who plays a journalist.  But, in all honesty, if she had a brain, she wouldn't ever be with her original boyfriend in the movie, named, of course, Dick. If you like hot girls getting naked on a whim Van Wilder is for you.  If you like the mix of gags with more cerebral comedy of earlier National Lampoon films, you'll be bored and annoyed that Van Wilder didn't fully use its actors' potential. "},{"Title":"A definite good time!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is hilarious! It has it's predictable moments, for example the part where the protagonist questions his being and the ending, but it's also unpredictable...and pretty disgusting. My laughter carried on from one scene to the next and it continued to the end of the film.Ryan Renolds is great as Van. He has good timing as a comedian but also has a sensitive and caring side. He truly carries this entire film singlehandedly. (Personally, I thought Tara Reid lacked.) I hope I'll see more of him in films to come, he's an enjoyable actor.Not a blockbuster movie, but very worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Van Wilder Is Van Wacko, Jacko!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  From the demented minds of the National Lampoon kids comes Van Wilder.  An Animal House-esque comedy about a party animal college student.  The flick's got babes, bawdiness, and brewskis galore, but, alas, not much of a screenplay.As an aspiring screenwriter myself I usually know good writing when I see it and you don't see much of it here.  But there are some decent laughs here and there.  You really can't take a film like this too seriously.  It's meant to be an utterly forgettable comedy and that's about that, Nat.The dude who plays Van Wilder does the best he can with this so-so material.  And the majority of the babes in this flick are very yummylicious to look at.  But I guess if you keep your moviegoing standards rather low you will kinda sorta dig Van Wilder, and that's a fact, Mac.  Over and out and all that jazz... "},{"Title":"Hilarious, worth seeing","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ryan Reynolds is so gorgeous in this movie and Tara Reid is adorable. It is a fun movie that keeps you laughing the whole time. Unlike many comedies these days, this movie had a great plot and a super cast! Definatly has gross humor at times, but go see it with your friends anyways! It is so worth it. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Fun Movie!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the tradition of such films as Ferris Bueller, Road Trip & the American Pie movies this coming of age comedy made me fall out of the theater chair laughing! Most critics are dislike this movie, But I've never listened to what they say... They never like the same stuff I do. If you enjoy the movies I listed above and the other National lampoon movies you won't be disappointed. Trust me this is the best flick you can see right now while waiting for Spider-man on May 3.  "},{"Title":"Everything National Lampoon is Capable of Bringing Us","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On a recent Saturday night I decided to partake in National Lampoon's latest installment, Van Wilder.From my original outlook the movie appeared to be ranchy, cheesy, filled with random and useless nudity. After my viewing I realized it was this and a whole lot more. These reasons being why I loved this movie from beginning to end. National Lampoon dumps the tired Chevy Chase series to go back to a classic viewpoint of the college life of one Van Wilder (Ryan Robertson) and his crazy antics in his 7th, yes 7th, year of college. The movie's trailer will give you all the plotline that is needed. For review sakes the movie works because it appeals to the youth audience it depends on for money. Robertson, who was very good in ABC's Two Guys and a Girl, is hilarious in the role and is supported by a stronger than average lewd-teen related movie cast. Tara Reid is beautiful and proves to be worthy of this leading lady role. Her look at the end-scene party is something to be marvelled. This girl is smoking...plain and simple. Kal Penn, Taj Mahal, is great in the hilarious, foreign sidekick role and has viewers laughing throughout. MTV viewers will get a kick out of now VJ and former Real World fav Teck Holmes as well. Tim Matheson is strong in his subtle role as Wilder's disapproving father alongside Tom Everett Scott and Daniel Cosgrove are recognizable figures that help with the pace of the movie. Simply put, Wilder enjoys the college lifestyle as National Lampoon demands it be and as many college students, myself included, wish they could have a part of. Don't expect to be moved or anything short of a MTV Award Nomination. But you will have a lot of laughs and a good time viewing Natl' Lampoon's Van Wilder. My Rating 8 out 10. Why you ask? Cheap laughs, random nudity, and a hilarious application scene with our foreign buddy Taj. Enjoy... "},{"Title":"Van Wilder clears the good name of National Lampoon","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  National Lampoon movies have undeniably been in a slump for the last recent decade. However, Van Wilder sets the good franchise back in track.Van Wilder is a young collegian in his seventh year at Coolidge College. He loves it so much there, that he purposely fails his classes and stays every year. Even though this makes the man sound bad, you'll notice there is much more to Van Wilder.The movie follows the recent teen trend of outrageously disgusting sight gags, but adds a few decent tricks to the mix. In fact, you'll actually care about Van Wilder and you'll understand why he perpetually stays at Coolidge. Of course, Tara Reid is one scorching woman, but that's all she adds to the movie. This film is Ryan Reynolds' film (Van), and he carries it greatly. It is easily seen that he has studied the greats, and it has paid off well.If you're looking for a funny, raunchy, and feel-good film... give Van a chance. "},{"Title":"Save your money and head to Blockbuster...","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Going into this film, I expected to see a raunchy, humorous movie similar to Animal House(as the trailer and reviews stated).  I was in for a surprise, for this movies pales in comparison to the classic Animal House.  Now, I'm the type of person who goes into the theater with an open mind, ready to accept anything I see.  Honestly, I laughed, maybe, five times throughout this entire film.  The plot is far-fetched and extremely unrealistic, and the humor is nothing you haven't seen before.  The are a few reasons that this film should be at the very bottom of your movies-to-see listFirst, I know that when one goes into a movie such as this, they don't expect to be moved or emotionally touched.  But you do expect to laugh, and this movie doesn't produce.  The raunchy humor might cause some gross out laughs, but there is very little intellectual, thought-out humor involved. It runs along the same lines as American Pie, but is much more predictable and thoughtless.  Now, obviously, this film is targeted to college students and teens.  To prove my point, I must explain that I attend a Big Ten University and went to the movie with a sold-out crowd.  There were only a few laugh out loud and uproarious instances, which displays the obvious lack of humor(which is the entire goal of the film).Second, the storyline of the film is very flawed and predictable, especially the ending.  It is also extremely unrealistic, whereas I point to the fact that his father had no idea his son was still in school.  How would a father not be aware that he was spending $30,000 per year towards his son's tuition?  You'll notice how ludicrous this is if you see the film.  The only redeeming factor involved in this movie is the characters.  Van Wilder is played very well by Ryan Reynolds, and his Indian assistant offers almost all the laughs.In conclusion, this is a poorly written and developed film, offering marginal, if any, laughs.  Obviously, a film such as this strive to attain returns based upon humor and the ability to make audiences laugh.  This film, flat-out, did not accomplish that goal.  So, if this gross-out humor is what your looking for, take a look at Animal House or American Pie.  If you've already had the chance to see either of these movies, save your time, another one will undoubtedly be in theaters soon.  "},{"Title":"Ryan Reynolds shines in a classic National Lampoons film","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw National Lampoon's Van Wilder, and I must say it was excellent. Ryan Reynolds stars as Van Wilder, a Coolidge College student who has been there for seven years and just doesn't want to leave. Let me just comment that Reynolds showcases his incredible talent and is without a doubt the driving force behind this movie. He's been one of my favorites since Two Guys and a Girl, and I'm glad he's getting more recognition. The story is good too, lots of humor. Don't expect any Get Shorty or Pulp Fiction kind of smart humor though, this one is somewhat raunchy. But hey, it still makes you laugh. I recommend this one. "}{"Title":"Just alright.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder was just alright. I expected quite a bit more from National Lampoon but considering the other comedies that have come out this year, Van Wilder is easily among the best. It was consistently amusing throughout the movie with two of the most hilarious scenes I have ever watched in my life. I recommend you see Van Wilder if you just need to have a good laugh and you have an extremely sick sense of humor.  "},{"Title":"Gross Out Fun we have seen before but still entertaining","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is not a new movie. It is a rehash of previous gross out teen flicks. There is the nasty bathroom humor, drunk humor, drug jokes, pretty naked coeds, parties, sex, gross sex talk, and even strange animal humor. This movie is NOT politically correct but that is part of the fun. The highlight of this movie is Ryan Reynolds who reprises his role of Berg from the long canceled TV Show 2 Guys and a Girl. In this case his name is Van Wilder but you get all the great asides and jokes that Berg was known for on the TV show. Tara Reid plays Gwen, a tough smart campus reporter out to expose Van Wilder's schemes. It was great to see her playing a normal person for a change. The one speed bump in this speeding gross out sex farce of a movie, was the love story subplot between Van and Gwen. It wasn't needed. Kal Penn, playing Van's assistant Taj, steals the movie even from Ryan Reynolds. Taj gets many of the best gags and one liners. This movie was good entertainment. It isn't Lord of the Rings but if you are looking for some sick fun for an hour and half, Van Wilder would be a good choice.  "},{"Title":"A good movie in it's own right, but not typical National Lampoon material.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As the movie started, I was trying to compare it to Animal House. Many of the basics are very similar, and the previews even encourage this analogy. As the movie progressed, however, I realized that American Pie is a much more apt comparison. The movie was a good, solid film, with lots of humorous parts. But when compared on a comedic level to Animal House or Christmas Vacation, it falls well short. Ryan Reynolds is hilarious, and definitely turns a pretty week story line into an entertaining movie. I really did like the movie, it just was not up to the National Lampoon films of past. "},{"Title":"Funnier than any other teen comedy! spoilers","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are tons of reasons to see NATIONAL LAMPOON'S VAN WILDER, but the main reason to see it is because unlike most teen comedies today, it has heart. Sure, Van does some nasty things especially involving his dog and pastries, though he still seems like a pretty good guy. Why is this important? Because lately in teen comedies, the characters have been extremely unlikable. Fianlly, here's a teen comedy that has likable characters, great slapstick, non-stop laughs, and an actual plot. This is the first teen comedy made in quite some time that will actually be remembered in twenty or so years like ANIMAL HOUSE. Movies like AMERICAN PIE and AMERICAN PIE 2 may be considered funny movies now personally, I don't think that they are funny at all, but I have a feeling in ten years, no one is even going to remember them. However, I have a feeling people are going to remember this movie. I know I sure will! "},{"Title":"Long awaited Nat'l Lampoons new one scores big laughs.","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that when college man Van Wilder's dog first turned around and showed the audience what was between his legs at the beginning of the movie, everyone in the theater knew that this was not going to be the most intelligent movie of the year. However, this awful scene did get huge laughs, moans, and applause which set Van Wilder on its way.Van Wilder tells the tale of college student Vance Wilder during his 7th year at college. During his years, he has succeeded in making thousands of friends, but as in all National Lampoons films, not great grades. This Animal House for the 21st century does fit the standard college movie criteria Booze, women, and not one classroom. But who doesn't love that?Van Wilder with its disgusting brand of humor (warning those weak of stomach may not appreciate the jelly donuts or the test scene) manages to bring big laughs with little or no mercy for easily disgusted.scooternorm's rating ********* (9 of 10 stars)  "},{"Title":"good attempt","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I honestly liked this movie, and I thought that Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid did a great job.  I recommend this movie to anyone because it is funny. People need to look at this film and watch it because it is funny. "},{"Title":"Quite funny for the type of movie it is. This is your warning This one is extremely gross!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the age of gross-out comedies, National Lampoon has stepped in to stake their claim on a genre they mastered long before it was popular. Unfortunately to most people unfamiliar with their work, this is going to seem just like one of the others. However, this one is quite funny. The big surprise is that Ryan Reynolds, the virtually unknown star who plays the title character carries the movie pretty well. His Jim Carrey-esque mannerisms and sense of comic timing are great and kept the movie from falling on its face (not to mention the girls seemed to love him). Tara Reid also provides another easy-on-the-eyes performance that kept the guys interested and had a few in the audience audibly gasping at a few of her outfits. With a whacked out group of characters in support, this 90-minute gag-a-thon seems to move along pretty smoothly. While this is no award winner, it certainly beats out other recent competitors in its genre. Of course it has a paper thin plot and a predictable ending, but that's not why people are going to see this, are they? The point is to be entertained and get a few laughs out of you, which it does well. There are some extremely gross scenes, though. Just when you thought you've seen it all, there's much worse! I won't spoil it here, but the screening audience was, as a whole, shocked during one particular sequence.If you enjoyed American Pie, Slackers, and all of those other extreme comedies, you'll like this one. In fact, it's worth checking out in the theater in that sense for that group laugh effect. Seeing some of the audience reactions alone is worth it. If not, waiting for video won't kill you. If this is not your type of entertainment, it's best to steer clear of this one!  "},{"Title":"I Laughed so hard it HURT!!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh my, Van Wilder is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. If you liked American Pie, You will more than love Van Wilder. Ryan Reynolds is great as the title character and he has great timing on screen. And then there is Tara Reid, enough said. Also, look for a few seventies and eighties college/high school movie actors that appear in the movie. There are many memorable scenes that you and your friends will be talking about for a long time. I was laughing in tears a few times during this movie. What are you doing still reading this, check the showtimes and go!!! LET WILDER STAY!!! "},{"Title":"Great fun, over and over again","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Basically this movie is great. None of the state of the art special effects, pretty plain camera work, but you can see past that in one second! The movie has a  well thought of story line, and is put together in the most hilarious of all ways. Its rude, clever, gross and everything a teen movie should be. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  VAN WILDER IS THE FUNNIEST MOVIE I'VE SEEN IN A LOOOOOONG TIME!!  I went to the 1005am matinee show.  There was only about 20 people in there.  we were all busting up laughing!  THIS IS DEFINITELY A MUST SEE!! National Lampoon has definitely come up with a winner this time.  I'M GOING BACK TO SEE IT AGAIN AND I NEVER DO THAT! "}{"Title":"It's all good.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder, what a character. Amusing movie, not ground breaking, but i'd say worth seeing. Ryan Renolds does well as the incredibly smooth 'Van Wilder', one of those 'Ferris Beuller' characters that everyone likes. Tara Reid struggles a bit, and doesn't really bring much to the movie, but she's hot, so her place is safe. All in all, a good movie. Very funny in some parts, with some classy Animal House reminiscent college humor, but not for the easily offended. Go  and see it for a good laugh. 7 out of 10 -  "},{"Title":"Animal House+PCU=Van Wilder","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one the feel good movie of the spring. I have truly not seen a good over the top comedy, since last summer. When AP2 and Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. This movie takes me back to great days of the 80's comedies and adds the 90's gross out humor that we all love. If you want to get away from your trouble for a hour and a half this is the movie to go see. "},{"Title":"Kind of Funny","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was kind of funny, but is very sick. It has a few funny parts that really funny, but then come in the sick parts. If anyone remembers the terrible Teen Movies from the 80's, This movies starts to turn into one, with van wilder falling in love with reid, then the boyfriend steps, it gets messy. I expected more from National Lampoons, since they had all those great hits from back in the day. Oh well i gave it 4 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is in the true vein of Animial House.  Ryan Reynolds is quite dynamic as the heir apparent to Tim Matheson's Otto.  Even though this movie is not in any way related to that classic movie.  Look for Revenge of the Nerd's Curtis Armstrong to steal all the scenes that he is in. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie was awesome. Yet I have a question about it. The music was quite awesome. There was one song that caught my ears and I'm dying to find out what its called. It goes, shes saying goodbye, and leaving tonight, shes used up all her lonely tear drops now. I checked on the soundtrack and its not there.  I previewed each one and found nothing. Would someone please help me to find out what the song is? Contact me!! Thanks! "},{"Title":"The New King Of Gross Out/Teen Comedies","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  American Pie used to be the king of gross out/teen sex comedies. However In My, and my friends opinions, there is a NEW king. National Lampoon's Van Wilder. Yes, This movie is hilarious. Yes Tara Reid is AMAZINGLY gorgeous. Yes the indian guy and Van are freaking hilarious. Yes the pastry scene is perhaps the most disgusting thing ever filmed, but yes it is funny. I can't say that enough (disgusting). And finally, yes, this movie has true emotion. That is a rare find in this type of movie. It might actually have a small effect on your life, another rare thing in this type of movie. Sure, not everybdoy will like this but My friends and I, and pretty much everybody else in my theatre sure as heck did, and It (the theatre) was packed at 545. A Solid 8.5/10.PS after seeing this you will have a newfound respect for bulldogs. "},{"Title":"I didn't want to like it but I did","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a picky moviegoer, and I tend to issue ratings weighted towards the middle (ie more likely to give a 6 than a 7, and more likely to give a 4 than a 3). So when I give a movie an 8, as I did this, I have to really like it. I'm 18. the whole thing is targeted at my demographic, so if you are older than 30 (exceptions allowed if you are extremely fond of your college days) or younger than, say, 15 (except if you have some college experience or are somehow otherwise interested in it), chances are you might not like it as much as I did, not to say it wouldn't be enjoyable. After I left thetheater, I thought to myself, 'yaknow, I don't want to like this movie. I really shouldn't like this movie. But I do. I really do'. There are plot gaps, and logic trips, and bad lines (including let's get this man lei'd. Probably the most corny line ever in a movie I liked). Hot chicks though. That NEVER hurts. Tara Reid is REALLY hot in this one, and I'm not her biggest fan (She is a sh**ty actress, and her character here just barely holds water), but she is just smokin' ('nough said). A list of the reasons I liked this A good deal of slapstick humor. Sex jokes galore. The ubiquitous as**ole who ends up getting screwed in numerous comical ways. The hero who you can't help but like (Reynolds really does a good job with this part). If you are debating whether to see it despite the bad reviews, go see it. Stuffy reviewers (The ones that work for the big papers and tv networks) don't get these movies, ever.  "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen a movie this funny since the likes of Tommy Boy and Billy Madison.  This tops it all, everyone in the theatre was laughing the entire time, at some points you couldnt even here the audio of the movie because everyone was so loud.  Great Movie! Hot girl (tara reid) GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Has some funny parts, but not enough.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder was not much more than I was expecting, in fact it was less. Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid are talented, fresh young acts and the film has some very funny parts, including some that you wouldn't believe if I told you (canine bodily fluids, etc.). Let's just say that this movie qualifies as a gross-out comedy. But I didn't feel that I laughed as much as I should have. Van Wilder in no way compares to the quality of humor in such films as There's Something About Mary which will forever remain a gross-out classic. Overall, if you do plan to watch Van Wilder, I recommend waiting for it's release on video and dvd. (** out of ****) "},{"Title":"Amusing","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amusing Flick. Although my college career was a lot shorter (4 years,) and less fun than Van Wilder's I fully identified with how he didn't want to graduate and go out in the real world. The movie is not the next Animal House, despite what National Lampoon would like, but it was amusing and had me laughing till I was in pain at several points.-- Be warned though, a lot of the comedy is very crass, so if you don't like gross out humor- then this movie isn't for you. "}{"Title":"Purely hilarious","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie tonight at a special screening at my college.  This has to be one of the best National Lampoon movies I have seen!  Completely hilarious, I don't think I stopped laughing for more than five minutes.... except for the cannoli scene and the hoots, hollers, and whistles I gave during some of the scenes with Tara Reid (like the hockey scene and the final scene.)  Ryan Reynolds (Van) reminds me through much of the movie of Chevy Chase in Caddyshack, making some similar off the wall comments as Chevy made.  Definately see this movie.  See it once just to laugh.  See it again to catch the plot bits you missed because you were laughing so hard. "},{"Title":"bottom line, funny and worth the money if you are looking for a goofy comedy","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  funny movie, made me laugh quite a bit.  smash mouth college/high school type of humor with lots of innuendos.  one bit is totally disgusting and grossed out the theater, but it was a big setup for another joke.  has somewhat of a ending that's not totally off the wall. randomness is all about this film.  eric estrada appears in a slight cameo, tek the mtv vj appears as van wilder's helper.  also some L.A. clippers pose as the school's bball players in a basketball game scene. bottom line, funny and worth the money if you are looking for a goofy comedy  "},{"Title":"Put it down to experience Ryan","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ryan Reynolds (Two Guys and a Girl) is Van Wilder - the most popular guy on campus; shuttling his way around in a golf cart, and handing out advice to his many followers. He's a man enjoying the education-in-reverse lifestyle he's fashioned for himself, and has deliberately flunked his courses across seven long years to preserve it. Van's father Vance (played by Animal House's Tim Matheson) however, is failing to see his son's eternal education as a sound investment of his countless dollars, and decides to cut off the funds leaving Van to finance his own way through college. Enlisting the help of his buddy Hutch (Teck Holmes) and eager to get laid Indian assistant Raj (Kal Penn of television's Buffy), Van sets about transforming himself from the most popular man in college to the ultimate party organiser, earning the cash to pay for the study.When eager college newspaper reporter Gwen  - keen to be given worthy exposes - is assigned to write a feature on the legend that is Van Wilder, she sets out to show him as a chancer on the make. But as she begins to spend more time with him, she realises there's another side to the man, and her hack jobs turn into more sympathetic prose. None of this sits well with Gwen's preppy boyfriend Dick (Daniel Cosgrove of &#145;Valentine' in a role which casts a knowing nod to the kind of baddy James Spader used to play so well) - leaving the two boys the rest of the film to set about discrediting each other, and thereby winning the heart of Gwen.Perhaps time will be kinder to Van Wilder Party Liaison than this review. It's not without it's charms; as the star Ryan Reynolds is engaging - despite his unsettling likeness to a young Chevy Chase. And while he's not given great scope for comedic depth - this being a film that relies on broad brush strokes  and gross out comedy American Pie-style - he certainly holds his own as a romantic male lead. Equally, the ever-lovely Tara Reid works single handedly to salvage respect for her sex amongst a parade of women in underwear desperate to sleep with Van Wilder or one of his cohorts. Also noteworthy is Kal Penn as Raj, who will do nothing to disarm racial stereotypes of Indians, but certainly provides some politically incorrect laughs.But somewhere down the production road, this movie found itself pulling in opposite directions because while it starts out as typical contemporary gross out comedy (a large section of the movie is given over to a dog ejaculating into cream buns - subsequently consumed by movie bad guy Dick), midway through it lurches into the kind of territory John Hughes used to call his own - the teen romantic comedy. In a knowing glance to its latter scenario it even casts Paul Gleason as the college prof on Van Wilder's tail - much as he was with the detentioning rebels in The Breakfast Club. All up, this is a likeable film if broad comedy is your thing, and a good film if you long for the eighties, but not one that's going to remain in anyone's memories for very long -  and for that, both Tara Reid and Ryan Reynolds should be very grateful. "},{"Title":"this film rocks","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  van wilder was the most hilarious national lampoons flick i have seen in a while. it lives up to the movie animal house and u can find it very similar indeed. van wilder is one heck of a tummy aching film. you will laugh your socks off, worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Funny Film, proud to have seen it already","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film over a month ago in a special screening where we had to fill in survey forms after the film. This film is excellently acted and hilarious - a great addition to the National Lampoon 'series'. I feel truly privileged to have already seen it. "},{"Title":"Good College Comedy","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My university had an advanced screening of Van Wilder a couple of weeks ago, and I must say that I found it to be up there with the likes of American Pie and Animal House when it comes to gross out, college humor.Van is a college student who has spent seven years at his school.  Upon learning this, Van's father (portrayed by Lampoon alum Tim Matheson) decides to stop paying his tuition, which leads Van to find other ways of earning tuition money.Tara Reid plays a reporter for his college's newspaper, and with Van being a BMOC, she is assigned to get Van's story for the graduation edition.  Van, however, spends most of their time together trying to get a date, much to the dismay of her boyfriend, Richard (played by Daniel Cosgrove), a pre-med student applying to Northwestern.The most humorous performance, however, goes to Van's assistant Taj (played by Kal Penn).  Taj is an international student who volunteers his time to Van in order to learn how to better pick up women.This is a very typical college humor movie, along the lines of American Pie and Animal House.  The gross-out gags were laugh out loud funny, and the movie moved along at a good pace.  If you're in the mood for a very good, juvenile comedy, I'd definitely recommend seeing Van Wilder.7 out of 10 *'s. "},{"Title":"The Animal House of the 21st Century","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just checked a sneak preview of Van Wilder at the movies.  It is non-stop funny.  Declare it as The Animal House of the 21st Century.  I know it is far off from the classic with John Belushi, but you will laugh so much, it will leave you with a headache.  Ryan Reynolds as Van was a perfect find for the character.  He played the role with such enthusiaism, taking on a Bluto/Otter combo role.  I can see why 7 years of college could be worth it in regard to fun.  Tara Reid as Gwen was nice.  A cutie and intelligent mind in the film matched the funny wits of the film.  Tim Matheson did a good job as Van's Dad.  Would've been nice to see more of him throughout the film, maybe some Otter resets would've be flooring.  Paul Gleason, yes, the same Paul Gleason from Trading Places and Breakfast Club had a nice role.  I was expecting him to be like a Dean Wormer, but he was cool as a professor, not sleazy or commanding like so many of his other movie roles.  Last, but not least, Curtis Armstrong, Booger from the Revenge of the Nerds films was funny as a campus police officer.  Special mention catch Erik Ponch Estrada and L.A. Clippers stars Lamar Odom, Darius Miles and Michael Olkawandi in special scenes.  A lot of bathroom humor and takes from American Pie, Road Trip, Not Another Teen Movie and Animal House of course. This movie is worth the 90 minutes of your afternoon or evening.  Be prepared to laugh yourself crazy!  8.9/10   "},{"Title":"FINALLY! National Lampoon delivers a hit comedy.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Remember when National Lampoon movies were funny? Yeah, its been a while, and if you've been to Vegas Vacation or Senior Trip in the last (whats it been, 10 years?) you'll know what I'm talking about.But at last, National Lampoon's Van Wilder has hit the mark with this hilarious installment. I just came from a free preview and all my friends agreed that this is definately one of the funnier movies we've seen in a LONG time.Ryan Reynolds (Van) is gut-bustingly funny throughout the film with his own spin of Jim Carrey/Jeremy Piven charisma, and Tara Ried shines as always as the ridiculously hot school newspaper reporter.If you're looking for a good time and great laughs reminiscent of PCU, Real Genius or Animal House, then GO SEE THIS MOVIE!But as fair warning, if you have any qualms about excessive grossness, beware, Van Wilder is chock full of it.Personally, I can't wait see more of Ryan Reynolds. The guy is hilarious!-Caff "},{"Title":"Outstanding Comedy.  One of the best I've seen in a long time.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is by far one of the best comedies I've seen in a long time. From opening to close it is full of both subtle, dry humor as well as the in your face potty humor we tend to need from time to time.  Be prepared to be disgusted in one or two spots (you might need a strong stomach - I say no more).  But overall it's just good clean oily fun.  It's one of those movies you'll be quoting often. "},{"Title":"A classic college flick; complete with tasteful/tasteless humor...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was fortunate to see this flick at a sneak preview.  I didn't expect anything more than another Road Trip/Scary Movie type movie aimed at a teen to college-aged audience, complete with sex, parties, drugs, and low-brow humor. I was somewhat surprised, but also got what I expected.  Without giving anything away, I was surprised to see meaningful scenes of tasteful humor and an overall representation of all college staples.  I was not surprised to encounter scenes (one in particular) of disgusting low-brow, toilet humor.  Fortunately, these scenes were spaced far enough apart to ease their impact on the movie.  But they are still the ones you remember first right after the movie (and warn friends of before they go to see it). Kudos to Ryan Reynolds, Tara Reid, and Kal Penn (who steals the show). Reynolds fits this role perfectly, after showing potential on Two Guys, a Girl, and a Pizza Place.  Tara Reid backs up her ever-increasing hotness with another sexy but intelligent girl performance.  Kal Penn is hilarious as an international student from India with an unexpected agenda. Go see this movie if you want to have a good time with some friends. Better than American Pie, but I wish Chevy Chase would have made a cameo. "}{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder (the film) introduces us to its title character (Reynolds), a suave, charming 7th-year undergrad at Coolidge College, who, although he hardly ever goes to class, is more intelligent than anyone else on campus, including the professors, and has a long line of people interviewing for the coveted position as his assistant. But when Van's dad (Tim Matheson) decides to cut off his son's tuition money, Van and Taj must come up with $20,000 for him to stay in school. Thinking this is an interesting story idea, the school newspaper editor (played briefly by Tom Everett Scott) assigns no-nonsense journalist and Gwen (Reid) to get the story.The film goes predictably from there, with Gwen at first disliking Van, but then discovering that he's really a charming guy with integrity and scruples, as opposed to her own snooty frat-boy fiancé (Daniel Cosgrove), and for some reason, Van is attracted to her, too. Along the way we are treated to every juvenile joke imaginable, from a sex-crazed elderly woman to a dog with huge testicles to a stripper letting go on Taj to Van filling dog semen into pastries to a diarrhea-plagued final exam student. It's all absolutely hilarious if you are under 16 years old. So overall it's not funny. Sure, there are plenty of would-be comedy moments that fall flat, and any film that defaults to vomit, urine, semen and farts as often as this one can safely be assumed to be reaching low, not high. But at least there are a few good gags here, a bit of off-the-wall humour (such as Erik Estrada auditioning to be Van's personal assistant), and &#x96; most importantly &#x96; there are likable characters too. Van is too self-assuredly assertive as a scam artist to be lovable, but Reynolds brings enough charisma to the role to at least make us want him to succeed. And Reid &#x96; she of girl-next-door prettiness and raspy voice &#x96; might not perfectly fit the bill as any film's serious intellectual, but she's still as likable as they come. Van Wilder is often silly &#x96; and gross &#x96; but it's rarely as moronic as some campus gross-out films-. If you don't try to compare it to fine cinema, and you can stomach the gross-out stuff, then you might just find enough here to come away satisfied &#x96; relatively speaking. "},{"Title":"Light entertaining and memorable","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie for years and can remember most lines of by heart. It is shamelessly funny and doesn't contain any dull moments. Its well thought out and what most comedy's should be like, a laugh a minute. Ryan Reynolds is a hilarious and Kal Penn supply's some of the funnest moments in the movieIts a shame the sequels don't have the same appeal and taint the name of a brilliant movie.This is also a movie that is better when shared with like minded people. A great movie for any movie night and you will be left smiling and quoting the movie for weeks after wards. Now write that down "},{"Title":"You Will Laugh, If You Like To Laugh","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a really stupid, really gross, and therefore really funny movie. Don't expect anything more. Fart jokes, boobies, etc. If you like that, then you will like this movie. If not, then shame on you for watching a movie you knew you wouldn't like anyways.As far as this style of movie goes, it is one of the best. Definitely comparable to Animal House, except Animal House came first (duh).Bottom line is you will laugh a ton, if you enjoy this kind of movie. It's one of my favorite comedies. The only thing you will gain, having watched this movie, is a bunch of laughs. Don't expect to learn anything. In fact, you might become more stoopider after seeing it. But we need that sometimes. "},{"Title":"A contender that should entertain American Pie lovers","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" College student and party enthusiast Van Wilder (Reynolds) is put in his place by an unavailable up and coming reporter (Reid) There have been many attempts at conveying the real life portrayal of school life in cinema over the last 10 years. From the largely successful crude American Pie to the down right tough nut drama Kidulthood there are many versions of how college life is seen. To generalise, most American films centre on the comedy genre when tackling these stories whilst British cinema aims to portray realism, and at the end of the day everything is exaggerated, but is marvellously funny and entertaining nonetheless, and the same goes for this almost American Pie riff.Ryan Reynolds is the main reason to watch as with all his previous roles he brings that contained side of cheekiness to his character and executes his comic timing to perfection with some well spoken phrases and equally amusing physical attributes. Though his comedy isn't on the brilliance of Just friends, he generates a feeling of coolness and gets the laughs that this genre always needs.As these are films about aging students, there are always repetitive ideologies encoded for the preferred reading. So we have sex, parties, losing virginity and complicated relationships. If you thought American Pie was crude, wait till this hits your screen. There is one particular moment that is irrevocable. Lets just say a dog and a spatula get a less than pleasant introduction, not to mention Wilder's sacrifice to get a form to carry on learning. It is definitely crude with that sense of physical comedy that we teens apparently love so much.As there is plenty of comedy there is still enough room to match the cheesy conventional plot that follows the rule book practically word for word. Well, to be fair the plot is springy because of the comedy input, but once more in this genre does a guy have to like the one girl he can't have and it's only going to end up one way. If this was tweaked a bit to add some surprise and energy we may have had a different feeling come the credits and feeling rewarded for the film's diversity, but once more we pay money to see the same concept repeated except with some fresh faces.Apart from the weighing down involvement of the conventional romance ideology, this is a very enjoyable picture. The characters, all pretty much stereotypes, bring their own spice to the plot, especially the teacher and Wilder's assistant Taj. We have the geeks, the jocks, the scientists, the swingers and so forth. All familiar and therefore its easy to transfer into entertainment. There is no silly character development and we are left with simply the person on screen with their own agenda.Van Wilder is a simple crude story wrapped with a wonderful central performance by Reynolds. Where this 2001 picture won't give fans the same satisfaction and buoyancy as American Pie or Euro trip, there is enough crude comedy to reward the target youthful audience for their money. "},{"Title":"They Left Out the Best Parts","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Finally caught up with Van Wilder on DVD for an article on what's happened to Frat/College movies since Animal House, and the most striking thing about this witless mess is that its best scenes are the deleted ones. They contain the character development, the plot exposition, and the textures (well, sort of) that would have made the rest of the movie interesting if they'd been left in. Oh, yeah, plus has anybody noticed that Van Wilder is gay? Not the actor, the character, and not all gays, just the gay stereotype. Lookit he plays fey, he rolls his eyes a lot, he spends inordinate energy getting other guys laid but not himself, his only heterosexual contact is with the woman as the aggressor, he's always coming on to girls but never following through, there's no kissing, and if his voice was any higher he'd be Tara Reid. On that level, perhaps, Van Wilder is a subversive movie. But that's giving it 18 credits more than it deserves. "},{"Title":"Very funny, but also serious; it contains essential subjects in our daily life","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has been on TV a couple of times by now, but I've only watched little parts of it until yesterday. I decided to watch the whole movie from the beginning till the end. I had great expectations, because the little parts I had already watched were funny, so the movie looked promising.So I watched it and I wasn't disappointed. Great movie! It's very funny (for example the scene where Richard literally takes a dope on the can), the film is true when it comes to the characters; take Richard for example. There really are persons like him and if I was one of them, I would have killed myself. I mean, how more dumb and naive can you be? Further more, the film has depth and moral - the issue with Van. He's afraid to face the real life and the responsibility that comes with it. We all think about the same thing that he does from time to time and we are all afraid of the unknown. It also shows that a person so confident and so sure of himself, also can be insecure deep inside. No one's perfect.I would have like though that we saw Van in a more player role. It says he has all the women, but we really don't see him seduce anyone, except Gwen and the old, old and old scary woman. But don't get me wrong, I'm pretty sure he has the ability, I would just have liked to see it more directly. "},{"Title":"Very surprised!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie going to the theater having won some tickets on a radio-show, having no idea whatsoever what this movie was about, nor about the cast. I therefore had the luxury of having no expectations about it. Well I am pleased to say that I really enjoyed it, and nearly laughed my ass off. Although too many of these movies are usually being made, there is always room for a few good ones, and this one stands above most of them. It's not too dumb (matter of taste of course, but it isn't one of these cheap, totally unintelligent movies almost offensively thrown at you), the cast is quite good (with few exceptions) and the humor is both original and offensive enough. A really funny movie with some memorable moments. Stands above most other high-school movies, one of the really memorable ones, such as Clueless and Animal House. I really recommend it for anyone wanting a good laugh, goes really well with some tacos, beer and good company. "},{"Title":"OK, not great but no terrible. Good or bad depending on the spectator","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not a fan of this kind of humour and wouldn't have gone to see this movie, rent it or even watch it if it came on television, however i came to see the film when a friend of mine told me to watch it. After sitting through a couple of hours of this kind of humour my conclusion was that the film was a great let down. The humour was poor, not even as funny as toilet humour, and the storyline was pretty boring. National Lampoons Animal House being a surprising favourite of mine, i saw this movie as an insult to the previous national lampoons pictures. There were similarities between the two films, however Van wilder just seemed to be a rip-off of Animal house, with a more dumbed down humour. The movie wasn't completely trash which is why i gave it a 5, it had some parts which were remotely funny and, i suppose, could be hilarious to some people. "},{"Title":"Write that down.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Summary written by rcs0411@yahoo.com Van Wilder is a guy who has been at his college for seven years. He spends most of his time throwing parties and fund raisers. When his father decides that it's time for tough love, he doesn't pay his tuition. So Van becomes a professional party thrower. At the same time, Gwen who writes for the college paper, is tasked with doing a story on him, but Van is too busy partying to do that. So she writes it using info from people who talk about him and writes an unflattering piece, which doesn't make him happy. He then dares her to see if she can get the true story but is more interested in trying to score with her, which is not easy because she has a boyfriend, who is a snob, and who is not too happy with the amount time she is spending with him. So he tries to get rid of him.Its like American Pie with a Ferris Buller twist. If you liked both those movies than pick this up, you will most likely enjoy it. "},{"Title":"If you want to laugh, and don't mind some very disgusting humor, it doesn't get much better than this...","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I bought this on recommendation (nay, outright demanding) from a friend of mine. I had never seen the movie, heard anything about it, or knew anything about Ryan Reynolds (Blade Trinity). So I sat down and started laughing from pretty much the beginning, all the way through the end.Now I've never been accused of having the highest moral standards when it comes to my comedy. I can watch high brow comedy such as Kicking and Screaming (the one with Eric Stoltz, not Will Ferrell's new comedy) or lowbrow such as Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. This movie belongs below Jay & Bob as far as how high it's standards are.I'm not even going to try to explain the humor which borders on outright disgusting to the point where you almost wonder if you'll make it through the movie. I had been warned about this, but paid it no mind. I have a strong stomach and have sat through pretty much everything.How foolish I was.Let's just say that you will probably NEVER eat an Eclair again. That's all I'm saying, but just remember I warned you.This was a perfect comedy, to me. Sure, Tara Reid was in it, but come on...Reynolds (A true comic genius) more than makes up for her vacant personality.So, sit back, turn off your gag reflex, and enjoy the ride. "}{"Title":"Buttock-clenchingly bad","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Think slapstick, toilet-humour teen comedies have been done to death? If not, you will after watching 5 minutes of Van Wilder...I sat through this epically awful comedy (and I use the word in it's loosest sense) on cable...the fact I didn't pay to see it did not seem to make it any more bearable. What inspired me to watch it to the end? Morbid curiosity, I suppose.Another in the endless series of teen potty-humour movies (American Pie, Wildcats, Not Another Teen Movie et al) that have been pumped out in the last few years. You will find nothing, and I mean NOTHING, in this movie you haven't seen a hundred times before, and, no doubt, executed infinitely better.The jokes are so hackneyed and predictable, you can guess the punchlines about 0.5 seconds after the gag begins. The level of humour makes Beavis and Butthead seem like Oscar Wilde, to the point where it just isn't funny. In fact, the only couple of laughs I got from the entire movie were outtakes shown over the end credits - and these were obviously only funny because they were improvised by the actors, not drawn from the awful script itself.Ryan Reynolds ought to sue his manager for putting him in this one. I think he is a very funny comedian (Two Guys, A Girl and a Pizza Place), and even in this titanic turkey, he delivers his (terrible) lines with a certain amount of flair.Maybe a bunch of drunken, pubescent teenagers MIGHT get a chuckle out of Van Wilder, but for anyone else, please let this atrocity gather dust on the shelves where it belongs. "},{"Title":"I could only sit through so much","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A mediocre movie in a mediocre genre (a college word for sophmoric movies about college), but let's focus on the bright spots.Ryan Reynolds's charisma almost makes this movie worth watching. The Indian sidekick (Asian, not Tonto) was a fresh touch in a movie full of stereotypes.  I can overlook the fact that the character's name was Taj Mahal.I'm not sure if this counts as a spoiler, but yes there's nudity in this movie.  One of Van's fundraising ventures is the topless tutor - sort of a midriff level teleprompter.  Nudity so gratiutous that it's funny. But I thought they wasted this joke, one of the more original ones in the movie, by cutting it short. This scene should have been drawn out to show some more lengthy memorization to better reflect what college is sometimes like. Was the director afraid that the audience would get bored?  Staring contests always make me laugh, so maybe there's some comic potential here for a future flick.On the downside, the movie gets worse as it goes along.  Any movie that climaxes with the bad guy taking a dump just isn't worth, uh, sitting down for.  I'm down with gross out humor, but laxative pranks just aren't funny anymore. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I turned on the TV (The movie network) and wanted to find a good comedy (clean or dirty wasn't a particular diffrence to me). I chose National Lampoon's Van Wilder. After watching through all the gross, totally inappropreate and needlessly disgusting scenes, I sat to down to write my shock and disappointment with regards to this movie. This film failed to meet my expectations in every possible way. Not only was it not funny, I couldn't see effort to make it funny. Anyone who calls this a comedy needs to get a reality check, and watch Kevin Smith's Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. The diffrence between the two movies was that while the humour was intended to be the same, one movie failed horribly. In conclusion, I must advise people not to spend $20 CDN on the video tape, or waste two hours of your precious time watching this garbage.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen...","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie is more than bad...It is trying to be funny by being vulgar but I think it is just plain gross.I wasted my time watching this when I could have been doing something useful and more entertaining like cleaning the bathroom. Horrible, tasteless movie.  "},{"Title":"Oh, come on!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh come on!This is just one of those American Pie like movies. It has some humorous moments, but overall it's just plain predictable. Why is it that all (commercial) American movies have to contain a moral?! To conclude it didn't entertain me at all. "},{"Title":"Exemplifies all that is wrong with comedy in the 2Ks","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe what classifies as comedy nowadays.   If you think fake vomit is hillarious, this is the movie for you because it tries to get laughs out of it numerous times throughout the film.  The main actors in this movie are fine, and they aren't the problem.   The problem is the lack of actual jokes.  Instead they go for the gross out humor, which isn't even well done because it is done in such a cartoony manner that it wouldn't gross out my grandma.  National Lampoon needs to get out of the movie business.  Animal House was a 10, Vacation was a 7 and this movie is 2.   By my calculations, their next theatrical release will most likely rate a minus 5, so why bother. "},{"Title":"Not what I had expected","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've heard so much about this movie and how funny it was, but when I watched it I hardly found anything funny at all. There are a few scenes which are slightly comical, but for the most part I wished I never rented it.People have talked about this movie vs the original Animal House. I have to say this movie isn't nor could ever come close to the original Animal House. Now that movie was a great, funny and comical movie...a real classic.If you plan on renting or buying this movie don't because it's a waste of both money and time. "},{"Title":"Animal House 2002 ? Almost, but not quite","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is billed as an Animal House for the 21st centruy and it comes to close to being there but it doesn't make it. While the film is funny in it's own right and features some great nude scenes the film didn't have that Animal House magic. Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid both do give great performances though and the film has a great supporting cast. "},{"Title":"unforgettable (unfurtunately)","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film in a sneak preview, so obviously I didn't know what i had to expect. I hadn't heard of the movie, so it took a while until I figured what an unpleasant surprise this film really was. The humor or as whatever you went to refer to it, was predictable and just plain unfunny. The acting...oh, just don't get me started. On the whole, a terrible movie "},{"Title":"Teen comedy 'til the very end!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this with my 16 year-old cousin. He'd previously seen the movie and asked me to go see it with him one more time, because apparently, the movie is just THAT good.And let me tell you right away; IT ISN'T THAT GOOD!Plot summary isn't all that necessary - the important thing in this movie is to get some laughs out of people...and it only nearly succeeds in this attempt. The comedy is as subtle as Ryan Reynolds' acting in general, so...not very! But, Reynolds must get credit for portraying this role, it could have gone even more wrong than this had it been some other - more famous - actor portraying the part of Van Wilder. If anyone has seen him in 2 Guys & A Girl, you won't be able to tell the difference from Van Wilder & Berg (the role in 2 guys...). But again, Reynolds does what he has to and he does that well. Tara Reid is equally as good in the role of Gwen, the serious student who is to write a piece on Van Wilder.Can you guess how this movie ends? NO? Well I'm not gonna give it away. The movie has its funny moments, even for a girl like me, but I would at anytime much rather see a comedy without the hints of penis, boobs, dog sperm, farting uncontrollably etc.  But - for a 16 year-old boy this movie simply rocks, he couldn't stop laughing from the cinema till we got home.  "}{"Title":"A new mixture of romance and comedy - not for everyone!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  VAN WILDER overall is a very funny movie, though the sometimes very rude humor will not fit everyone. Basically the movie tells a love story between Van Wilder (long-term college student who after 7 years of college is part of the inventory) and Gwen Pearson (fellow student and editor of the campus newspaper). The editor-in-chief of her paper promises her the title page of the graduation paper if she manages to come up with an investigative story about Van Wilder. During her research and the two of them meeting for interviews etc. the story evolves.That seems to be the part written for the girls, whereas all the parties, jokes etc. that support and lighten up the basic story apparently are written for the guys. Crude jokes in the tradition of American Pie 1&2 and Road Trip will guarantee that people who liked the mentioned movies will love this one, too. In my opinion this sexually oriented humor even sets a few new highlights in this genre, but as I said these scenes will be very appalling to others.At some time or another I thought that this movie obviously has been a product of consequent market research The movie is made to appeal to two major target audiences. Both fans of movies like American Pie or any other sex/party/college comedy and of movies like 10 things I hate about you or similar teen-romances COULD like this movie. The problem and/or (dis)advantage of this mixed approach is that even though you might like one part of the movie the other part COULD destroy it within the next few minutes. That also seems to be the reason for the average ratings.WARNING SPOILER START >>> The one and only point about this movie I especially DISliked was the way the Indian student was presented. One can take this as part of the rude humor, but personally I think it goes a step to far by making fun of the Indian culture. This probably is a typical German problem as we (nowadays) are carefully educated not to make jokes about other peoples/races. <<< SPOILER ENDYou will love this movie if you like the sexually oriented humor of movies like American Pie AND can live with a somewhat weak love story.You will maybe also enjoy VAN WILDER if you like all kinds of romances with a high school or college setting AND can cope with a sometimes very rude humor.You definitely will hate this movie if you neither like silly humor as mentioned above nor predictable romances (especially with the well-worn college setting). "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's not much to say about this movie, so I won't. All the funny parts were on the trailer (and they weren't so funny anyway). Did we really need to be punished with Van Wilder?Sorority Boys is a masterpiece of comedy, compared to this. "},{"Title":"Don't wear your thinking pants to this flick...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Simply entertaining- nothing more, nothing less.  Not the classic National Lampoon satire(chevy chase et all) that leave those corny jokes hanging in your teeth or spit stains on the front of your shirt from snarfing beer... but Van Wilder is more along the lines of American Pie.  Expect lots of hot chicks, alcohol, and a bulldog with elephantiasis (you'll understand soon enough).  This movie will soon be forgotten, but hey, watch it if you can (at least to *cough* analyze the epitome of the fantasized college experience). "},{"Title":"It's pretty damn cool.","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder is a pretty damn cool movie. The writing is awesome and slick, and I think the deliveries from all the actors are perfect. Aside from the fact that Van is a really cool character, he is also very, very hot! For me, the fact that the character is a player really adds to that sexy persona. The Indian dude is frigging hilarious. His nervous, jumpy, very sweet and naive personality is really nice to watch. Tara Reid gives a great performance as uptight Gwen. It's really awesome to see how a character can change in such in such a small space of time. I don't think the movie would have been even half as good if it had had a different cast. The actors deliveries, teamed with the great writing and acting are what makes this movie different from most other teenage, gross out humour type movies. It stands out more. The ending was great, with Van finally bonding with his dad and Indian guy finding love. It really wraps the movie and it's characters up real nice. I like that a lot. "},{"Title":"Van Wilder, a film so annoying and over the top at times that I can't help but admire it.","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I will be the first to admit that I do not like the direction that National Lampoon's has gone over the years. The Chevy Chase years are long gone, and those were my favorites. Van Wilder is beyond my description. Some of the humor is over the top and would make Tom Green proud. An example of this would be the 'filling' in the desserts that are sent to the snobby frat boys. If you've seen the film, or at least the unrated version, then you know what I'm talking about. If not, you should see it, because I try my best not to include spoilers in my comments. The story basically follows a college student named Van Wilder, whose father is paying for his school. They evidently have such a poor relationship that the father doesn't realize that Wilder hasn't graduated yet. So upon learning that his son has been in school 7 years with nothing to show for it, he stops payment of his schooling. From that point on, Wilder develops various schemes in order to pay for his tuition. This is where the story actually begins. Along the way, Van meets a reporter played by the attractive Tara Reid, who is actually alright in these types of roles, but nothing to jump up and down about acting wise. I would recommend this film, but not highly. The Chevy Chase years were way better. I will repeat, this film is quite over the top with the gross out and shock humor. But the overall message, which is something of a look at the deeper part of the human condition, was actually pretty good.7/10 "},{"Title":"With a little charm, this crude comedy could've went a lot farther","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  National Lampoon's Van Wilder suffers from the same problem many gross-out comedies of recent years have been suffering from  it has no charm and many of the gags are just plain mean.  There have been so many gross-out flicks recently that we've grown tired--well, at least I have--of fart jokes, sex jokes and other jokes involving bodily fluids.  But if you're gonna do a gross-out comedy, do it right.  In the American Pie movies, many of the gags worked because as crude as they were, they weren't mean-spirited. And the characters were likable and the film had its charm.  When Stiffler gets peed on in AP 2, nobody's intentionally peeing on him.  He gets peed on because a party-goer got really drunk, someone was taking too long in the bathroom and he had to pee really bad.  So he went out on the porch to relieve himself, not knowing that Stiffler was down below.  And viola! You got yourself a hysterical gag!  In this film, there's an excruciatingly tasteless gag involving Van Wilder and the guys injected their dog's semen into some pastries and sending them to a fraternity, where the leader is the scuzzbag boyfriend of the girl he likes.  Now, I can't imagine a scene involving masturbating a dog and injecting his you-know-what into pastries being transformed into something hilarious, but the director makes it worse by showing us close-ups of the guys scarfing down those pastries with the dog's juices dripping out and into their mouths.  This is both mean-spirited AND disgusting.  Therefore, not funny.  I know what you're thinking  This guy's a creep, why would making him eat those pastries be mean?  The point is in comedy things are always funnier when they happen to characters by chance or coincidence, and not by someone's vindictive motives.  Another great example (as long as we're on the subject of semen) is the famous gag in There's Something About Mary involving the hair gel.  Cameron Diaz didn't know she was slapping man juices onto her hair.  She's just a victim of chance.  And that's why that gag is going down in history, while people are watching the dog semen gag and walking out the theater.Ryan Reynolds was fairly good on the short-lived sitcom, Two Guys, A Girl and a Pizza Place.  Some actors are cut out well for TV, but make a terrible transition to film.  A good number of actors make a smooth transition  Bruce Willis, George Clooney, John Travolta.  Reynolds is obviously not a star in making, when it comes to Hollywood, and he should really stick to TV.  His timing is pretty good, but his delivery sucks. Throughout the film, he maintains the same dull sarcastic expression.  I liked him in his small role in the underrated indie film, The Alarmist, but he does not have the charisma to pull off a leading role.  He should either stick to small roles or the small screen.  A better actor could've added more charm and sweetness to the Van Wilder character.  Though most of the dialogue he says his lame, the way the Van Wilder character is written ain't too shabby.  What I did appreciate was the fact that he didn't cater to a certain clique.  Most of the time, when you have a character in a high school or college movie who is Mr. Popular, he doesn't want to have anything to do with the geeks and outcasts.  And if he does, it doesn't occur until the schmaltzy third act.  When the geek squad shows up to Van's dorm, asking to throw a party, he doesn't throw them out and say, F**k off, nerd boy.  Instead, he throws them a great party and hooks them up with some fly honeys.  That's why I said, with a better actor, Van could've been ever more likable.The movie scrapes the line between marginally bad and OK.  It's not totally without laughs.  The foreign exchange student has some hilarious moments. His opening scene where he screams out a boatload of vulgar sexual metaphors (I wanna take her to the car wash!) is about the only scene that had me cracking up.  Other than that, I guess I didn't receive any laughs, but I got a few chuckles here and there.  And there's some really hot, half-naked chicks.  And some really hot, fully naked chicks.  So how could a heterosexual man complain about that?***********SOME MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD************The plot is useless--it's the same by-the-numbers crap you've seen in every teen movie.  Tara Reid's a really hot chick.  She's going out a really big a**hole.  She meets Van Wilder.  Doesn't like him at first, yet we immediately sense the sexual tension.  She starts to have feelings for Van Wilder.  Originality, where are you?  There's even the ultra-lame montage where we dissolve from Ryan to Tara's face, both of them staring into space, while the melancholy soundtrack fills the scene.  And then...we have the even lamer scene where Tara runs up to Ryan's dorm and catches him with another woman!  First of all, it's on the Top 10 List of Most Cliched Moments Captured in Movies.  Second of all, you don't feel bad for Tara, because she was about to marry the a**hole from the fraternity.  He thought she was gonna get married, so why shouldn't he screw around?Though it's become a tiresome trend in teen movies recently, it was fun seeing grown-up stars of past teen movies popping up in cameos.  It was cool seeing Tim Matheson--former star of Animal House where he played the head of a rowdy fraternity is now playing an uptight Dad.  It's been done before (in fact, he himself has played it before in She's All That), but it's a good inside joke.  And remember Tom Cruise's buddy in Risky Business? That's right, Curtis Armstrong pops up in another interesting cameo.With sharper writing, the crudeness could've been a lot funnier and the movie itself could've revived the National Lampoons title.  But altogether, this is just another throwaway comedy.  Not the worst comedy ever, and certainly not as bad as it appears in the trailers, but altogether lame.  Until filmmakers observe the line between disgusting and funny, they should just stop making gross-out comedies period.  A dog with over-sized testicles--disgusting, not funny.My score  5 (out of 10)        "},{"Title":"One party to miss out on","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  National Lampoon, which hasn't used its name on a movie in years (hell, Vegas Vacation didn't even use it), slaps it on the latest in a string of tasteless comedies, this crap heap called Van Wilder. It tries to reinvigorate the spirit of another National Lampoon college comedy, the similarly disjointed but far superior Animal House.Director Walt Becker knows the anatomy of a teen comedy, but he has no finesse or concept of pacing these jokes so that they can build. Plus, there's only so much you can do with a script so riddled with cliches. It has all the trademarks of a typical comedy nowadays excessive partying, topless women, offensive racial stereotypes, humor involving genitalia/bodily fluids/muffled sexual experiences, and the list goes on and on. The last movie to do this successfully was Road Trip, which, in my opinion, is up there with Animal House.Ryan Reynolds(Two Guys, A Girl and a Pizza Place), in the title role, is a very exciting, charismatic actor with an acute sense of comic timing, but he's still no John Belushi. He is the only good thing about this movie, besides looking at Tara Reid, who is Tara-ble She delivers every single line in a flat tone that is secretly saying, Please get me out of this movie. We agree, sweetie.The movie also uses Paul Gleason, who only reminds us of his hilarious turn in The Breakfast Club. Gleason, sadly, also appeared in Not Another Teen Movie, which also should have been flushed down the studio toilet with their expensive lunch and designer coffee. If you found that last line offensive, you will not like Van Wilder. If you found it amusing, you will not like Van Wilder.I wanted to stop the movie so much, but I kept thinking it would get better... and surprisingly it did; some pretty funny outtakes play during the closing credits, but not worth the price of a rental. Van Wilder may through some great parties, but you'll feel like the only one not drinking, so stay inside and read a book instead.* out of **** "},{"Title":"3 new jokes","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All this film offered me in 90 minutes was exactly 3 new jokes which I could laugh about. For me as an European the film has too much American stereotypes. I wonder how long this kind of film will appear until something new will come.  "},{"Title":"more gross.....less funny......","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Van Wilder' is a predictable movie that has gags that have all been done before, except for the fact that they push the gag a little bit further.  Unfortunately the math doesn't add up here.  Pushing something further doesn't equal something being funnier.  In fact, the movie failed to make me laugh more than once.  I think I guffawed a couple of times, and then that was about it.  It was a rather predictable and uneventful ninety minutes.  I don't blame Ryan Reynolds, who(just like in 'Two Guys and a Girl')is only as good as his material.  Unfortunately, again, the material isn't worth the effort.  National Lampoon movies used to be what we looked to for good laughs and gratuitous nudity.  The problem with them now is that they have been bested by many other people who have taken what we see to the extreme. Not a positive trend in movies either.  I'm not saying fart jokes never make me laugh, and I'm not saying that gratuitous nudity(which there isn't enough of in this movie)isn't good, because it's fine with me.  The problem is that no one is clever anymore.  If you want to laugh while still having your intelligence respected, I suggest you go out and rent 'Some Like it Hot', or really any comedy from the golden age of cinema.  Please leave the Van Wilder's of the world on the shelf because they don't really deserve your time or effort.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Worthy","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After an hour of painfully watching this movie I couldn't take any more of it. Written by a 14 year old, it is both unfunny and unworthy of being in the National Lampoon category. Hold that thought, NL looks to be whoring their logo, similar to American Pie and Amityville. The film's premise appears to be the ultimate goal of generation Y's, or whatever the kids are called these days, which is to hold the ultimate party, or the never-ending party, or hey look how cool I am, I can throw the wildest party. The main character, whom this movie is named after, is supposed to be some ultimate party thrower. (Gag me now, It's beginning to sound so stupid.) To please the races, he is given a token black roommate and an over the top horny Indian assistant. Politically correct rears it's ugly head again. A few icons from the 80s (Revenge of the Nerd's Booger & the Breakfast Club teacher) and Tim Mattheson as Wilder's dad are thrown into the fray in a feeble attempt to try to legitimize the whole thing. In fact, Wilder is a poor man's Otter and a Ferris Bueler wannabe. This film is wannabe all the way in its attempt to borrow things from other movies, like Wilder's sex with a nasty looking lady (stole Woody's fling from Kingpin ). For the makers to call this piece o' crap the Animal House of the Millennium is pure shameless blasphemy. Tara Reid turns in a lame performance, she wins the Padme award for just laying there through the whole film. I give this garbage a 1 out of 10 and rank it way down there with Maximum Overdrive, Carrey's Grinch, and CA Full Throttle. "}{"Title":"Typical trash, save only a good lead performance...","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" National Lampoon's Van Wilder is everything you'd expect it to be judging alone from the trailers and the cover. Its another bad Animal House teen 'raunchy' comedy rip off. There really isn't much to go by here. Overall, its a largely unfunny, predictable clichéd teen comedy.Ryan Reynolds gives a good, convincing enough jig however as the title character. Van Wilder has been at Coolidge University for 7 years now this is mentioned about every other minute in the movie, clearly the film's 'star' joke. Somehow, his father doesn't realize this but once he finally finds out in an early scene, he decides to stop paying the tuition for his son's education. Wilder is your typical party rat, a person who apparently never sleeps or does his work, yet somehow manages to stay in school all this time. Now, Wilder must decide whether to change his ways or to leave his friends and leave school. The character is pretty unlikeable, but Reynolds almost succeeds in making us like him at several points of the film.The film is quite predictable. I don't want to spoil the ending for anyone, really, but just in case you haven't guessed it yet, the highly unlikeable protagonist changes his ways and gets the 'hot girl' at the end, of course, this whole setup is ridiculous to begin with, but even by playing along with it, it feels empty and hollow. Each character, scene, and joke is plotted in a conventionally clichéd way. The characters are all two dimensional, black and white types. Ala Animal House, the villain of course is an obnoxious, rich, preppy, stuck up, fraternity president type, spotted right off the bat. We can quickly smell each scene coming, and unless you've either never seen one of these types of films before or are just living under a rock, its quite easy to see where every scene is going.Among the film's prized jokes are An erotic dancer farting in the face of several men, along with a number of other flatulence jokes, a man putting his lips on another man's 'pump', mistaking it for a cup, a group of grammar school children getting drunk and proceeding to vomit from the windows of their school-bus, the antagonist having a case of explosive diarrhea, his feces ending up in a garbage can in front of onlookers a scene strangely familiar to the toilet/diarrhea scene in American Pie, and of course the clichéd, horny foreign exchange student. Many of these jokes and moments simply do not work at all.There are very few laughs to go around in this clichéd, annoyingly predictable and familiar college party flick. Despite some heartfelt performances, the film fails on most every level, especially as a comedy. Only recommendable to young, immature teenagers.3/10 "},{"Title":"Van Wilder a true film, an epic.","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film at first look seems to be just a foolish sophomoric comedy in all shape and form. And could only wish to be with the great sophomoric comedies such as dumb and dumber or Joe Dirt theses films were written with such wit that that they almost are in a completely different genre. But alas Van Wilder holds special qualities and shows that it may be in the same spot a Dumb and Dumber and Joe Dirt.Van Wilder as a epic quality to it much like Joe dirt. Van Wilder though it may not have been intended by the writers can teach everyone about life, and how we should look at others. It goes on to show us that everyone in there own right is cool(except for those assholes who ruin it for everyone). Constantly in this film you see the power one may have if you believe in yourself and in the potential of others, and along the way you laugh your ass off.This film may not be in the same rank as Casablanca, Citzen Kane, North By Northwest or The Last Samurai, but like these classics new and old this film touches the heart and inspire those who watch them. Van Wilder holds true to heart, friendship, fun, love, and not taking life seriously so we can get out alive.-k.e. (M) "},{"Title":"Read this!!!","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had the displeasure of watching Van Wilder for the first and last time last night. Oh how it still burns in my head. This poor film suffers from some odd sort of cinematic schizophrenia sometimes it thinks it wants to be animal house as it's stereotypical frat-boy-cum-slave-driver uses unidentified and nameless students as croquet posts and tunnels, and sometimes it wants to be a sentimental love story. This movie feels like a string of barely related pranks and humor that was patch-worked together with something akin to a plot. Our hero, the amiable and misguided but otherwise kind hearted Van Wilder is every college boys wet dream of a self-image Intelligent but not too intelligent, clever with comebacks, interested in finer things like love and friends and disinterested in having a life revolving around work, living off his fathers bank account, campus celebrity, blah blah blah.... I'm sure you've probably seen this before and it was much better as a high school movie called Fast Times at Ridgemont High, or was it Animal House, or maybe this film just tries to lamely take concepts from these better films and update them for a newer audience. Whatever it is it's pure crap.I've never seen such sick humor outside of a Troma Studios movie. At least with a Troma release you expect lots of feces, vomit, sick humor involving children and a plot as absurd as the premise. But in Van Wilder you get all the vomit, sperm and abuse with a plot they think you might care about. Boy has it good, boy gets told by father that he will not receive more easy money, boy has roaring good time as he crunches many business opportunities to raise money so he can continue with his chosen looserly lifestyle, boy meets overtly-cute pseudo-intelligent girl who wants an interview for the school paper, and wait for the surprise... Boy falls in love with girl who has boyfriend in the snottiest frat on campus. Bet you didn't see that coming. Bet you don't see the friction, pranks and insults that go on between Frat boy and Van Wilder. But then again, I am sure you do.The shining moments of the movie are only so because they will stay burned in your brain for days afterwards. Take for instance the continual shots of Van's bulldog's obviously fake, over-sized testicles which will fill your screen on occasion. You will get endlessly entertained by swaying testicles, floating hot-tub testicles, Van kissing dog testicles in an early morning surprise. As if the large testicles weren't enough we get one of the most disturbing scenes in movie history when Van plots revenge against his rival, the boyfriend of the main love interest of course, by removing the cream filling of eclairs using gynecological instruments only to be refilled by having his friend masturbate the dog to create a new and exciting filling. But wait! There's more! Once the many eclairs are full and the dogs testicles are now down to a normal, smaller pair, they are placed casually and suspiciously outside the snotty frat-house. Oh the horror as for quite a while we are treated to many frat boys voraciously enjoying every gooey, warm, drippy, clear drop of the dog sperm from the eclair as they make obvious comments like Wow, they're still warm and I think I have had these before. Trust me, much time is dedicated to this scene and.... Damn. I used to love eclairs.There is a lot of really easy and simple humor in this movie. Let's have an Indian student talk about dirty sex as it will be funny just for that accent. Or maybe we can get elementary school kids drunk and have them projectile vomit. Let's have strippers who fart smoke, that's cool.?? This movie has none of the charm of Beavis and Butthead, none of the stylistic unapologetic crassness of a Troma Film, And the plot is soooooo predictable and merely a rehash of almost every bad college film in history. It's the same plot as One Crazy Summer but not even close to funny and that film used Curtis Armstrong in a way that we all laughed at. In this film he has been degraded to a momentary laugh and no character at all. No body in this film gets fleshed out, the only thing remote to character development is the exchange student gets laid and Van Wilder comes to understand why he hasn't left college in 7 years and trust me that part is about as deep as a dog-bowl.I wish I had something nice to say about this movie. Even Showgirls is enjoyable for it's embarrassing attempt at seriousness, but this piece of work has no redeeming qualities. The only truly funny moment is as the credits roll and we see some of the behind the scenes pranks with several characters playing up homosexual elements that were only hinted at in the film. I'm sorry but I can't even recommend this film. Avoid it all costs. "},{"Title":"'Van Wilder' is certainly no Animal House.  Write that down.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ryan Reynolds plays the titled slacker who's been residing at Coolidge College for seven years living it up until his dad (Tim Matheson of Animal House) decides to stop payment on his tuition for not making good grades. So, Van Wilder tries to come up with fool-proof schemes that will get him some fast money so he can stay in school.The latest from National Lampoon tries to be as good as Animal House, but fails. It can't even measure up to American Pie. Sure there are plenty of gross-out gags but not all of them are funny. The right technique to being both gross and funny at the same time is not there. Write that down. My evaluation * out of **** "},{"Title":"I don't know why but I still liked it","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend borrowed this one - I usually go for the action/horror/sci-fi stuff. So I prepared myself for one of those terribly boring college comedies with poorly developed characters, boring jokes, no story, and at least some pretty college kids. Which was exactly what I got. Still, for some reason I found this film rather entertaining. Maybe because of the message it delivers - gives you a good excuse to be more like Van Wilder and less like that guy from the DIK fraternity. "},{"Title":"You'll Never Eat A Pastrie Again!!!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder was a really funny and great installment in the National Lampoon series. Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid were really good, and the movie had lots of sick gags and hilarious sequences. I'll give you one piece of advice after you see this movie never eat a pastrie again!!!!!! When you see the movie, you'll see why. ) And also, never let your girlfriend make you a protien shake! You will also see why after watching this movie. All, in all, Van Wilder was a good and huomorously disgusting movie that you will love. I give it a 10 out of 10! ) "},{"Title":"A crude and obvious genre movie with few if any laughs","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After the better part of a decade in college, Van Wilder's father pulls the plug and leaves Van with little option but to drop out. However when he is offered money to organise a party for a terminally uncool fraternity, Van realises that he maybe has a chance. An unkind expose on Wilder in the college paper by conveniently gorgeous Gwen, actually serves to increase his reputation and soon he has people queuing up to pay him to organise more parties. Meanwhile though, Gwen wants more stories on Van, whereas Van just wants more Gwen.The film opens with a title sequence that is cheap looking and lacks style and moves straight into a scene where an old Oriental woman appears to be giving oral sex to our hero. And so it continues in this vein with no obvious or crude joke left undelivered. We have stiff Indians talking dirty (see the clever contrast there?), farting strippers (for no reason other than delivering a rubbish blow job joke), sandwiches made with dog ejaculate and so on. We are never in danger of the film being better than this and indeed nobody involved seems concerned with ticking all the basic genre boxes and leaving it at that. The material is uninspired and uninspiring; occasionally bits of it made me laugh but most of it was either boring or just crude to the point of being puerile. I imagine that fans of college comedies may enjoy this but for the casual viewer and most people over the age of 21, there will be very little to justify watching this for.The cast match the material in absolutely doing the basics. Reynolds mugs his way along but is more annoying than anything else &#150; he learns the hard way that you can't force charm and screen presence, because he gives it all he can here but fails. Of course compared to Reid, watching him is like a masterclass in the art of acting. Reid does the same character that she always does; I know she had had personal issues just before this film but it is hard to excuse her very weak performance. Matheson, Gleason, Armstrong and Estrada (yes, you heard me) all appear in tiny adult roles that add nothing but did make me wonder why they bothered. Penn does what the material requires even though it is rather racially questionable. The performances of the rest of the cast is only noticeable for the very male & teenage depiction of women, which can be summed up by watching the scene in which Van calls Gwen's room but gets her flatmate who, for some reason, was on the PC in a tight vest and pants. The film doesn't explain why she was dressed this way or why this scene was necessary but it is clear that the target audience is teenage boys and that the depiction of women is slanted accordingly.Overall then a mostly unfunny and obvious genre movie that goes through the motions but does very little else. Calling it crude doesn't really do it justice and generally if there is a simple bodily function or gross out joke that can be delivered, it will be delivered here &#150; even if it means structuring parts of the plot for the sole purpose of getting to that joke. Those that love this sort of thing will already have flocked to it (and the unnecessary sequel) but for the casual viewer I say this &#150; you're better than this. "},{"Title":"Staggeringly Awful","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie might be funny if you're twelve, but otherwise, please avoid at all costs. There might be one or two genuinely funny moments scattered amongst the mess, but these are due solely to the charm and charisma of Ryan Reynolds... and the rather bizarre foresight the filmmakers had in casting Kal Penn as Wilder's assistant. These two actors own their characters, and single-handedly save the film from being a 1 out of 10.Every other actor in the film is simply a talking head, taking up space and bringing nothing to the table, particular Tara Reid who has all the on-screen presence of a wet paper towel. She visibly perks up when she's supposed to be lusting after someone, but other than that, stares blankly and confusedly through the whole movie.The writers should be slapped and the director should be beaten. The owners of the National Lampoon trademark should track them down and haze them like they've never been hazed. It took me three years to watch this film, because this time it was for free, and I still feel like someone owes me something. Avoid, avoid, avoid. "},{"Title":"Sentimental, Although Disgusting","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The most popular kid on campus (Ryan Reynolds) meets a hideously deformed journalist (Tara Reid) who makes him realize that maybe he is afraid to graduate.When I first viewed this movie (circa 2003), I was not terribly impressed and absolutely repulsed by a certain scene that has made it notorious. The scene adds nothing to the film other than to make audiences feel sick to their stomachs.Upon rewatching (2014), there is still an overall crudeness to the film that may not be necessary, and seems to be an unfortunately part of comedy movies made at the time (the American Pie series is very similar in tone). But, I must confess, there is a certain sentimentality to it all, and if it were not for that one moment, this might be a fairly decent film. Not great, but decent.Ryan Reynolds may not be the biggest actor out there, but this film put him on the map, and it should be recognized for that, too. "},{"Title":"A heartwarming and endearing Comedy","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Comedy is not a genre of film that I usually watch so it is very rare for me to find one that is actually memorable, this one however surpassed all of my expectation's. The writing is solid and the movie is not full of corny one liners like a lot of so called comedies what it is full of is situational humor and really memorable characters. Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid have great chemistry and work well together in the film, Kal Pen is also brilliant as the horny yet very intelligent foreign exchange student. In the tradition of American Pie and the other National Lampoon films Van Wilder is the perfect comedy to usher comedy into the new century. "}{"Title":"Amusing comedy","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder (2002, Dir. Walt Becker) Gwen Pearson (Reid) is a beautiful journalist, who is assigned the job of interviewing the most popular guy on campus, Van Wilder (Reynolds). Van should have graduated long ago, but stays on to create the best time for anyone who requests it. When Gwen finally encounters Van, she makes him realise that he might be afraid to graduate.Amusing comedy film which helped kick-off Reynolds' comedy career. Some jokes do fall flat at times, but there are enough from both Reynolds and a very funny Kal Penn to keep you laughing from start to finish.We are truly up the Ganga river without a bamboo oar. - Taj Mahal Badalandabad (Kal Penn) "},{"Title":"Great Movie if you're just looking to laugh","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is this the most thought provoking picture? No. Does it burst with wit and philosophical musings? No. Is it awesome for its use of dick jokes and trashy humor? Hellz ya. I love this movie because its always on Comedy Central and it has those two or three moments every time that just make me laugh. Also, this was before the Tara Reid disaster, so she looks decent. The cast isn't exactly top-notch but to be honest, this movie doesn't' need an impressive cast, all it needs is a bunch of people who can make a good fart joke and a dog with prosthetic testicles. The story has obviously been told before but an updated collection of gags and sophomoric humor keep this movie ahead of the pack. Bottom line, if you're just looking to watch a movie with some buddies at 1 am after a hard nights drinking, you can't go wrong with this one. And if you're just looking to find out what Tara Reid looked like before the s*$t hit the fan, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies Out There","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder is not your traditional comedy. It is very funny, but it goes beyond the traditional college comedy movie. Ryan Reynolds does an incredible job as Van Wilder while co-stars Kal Penn and Tara Reid create memorable characters. I have watched this movie over ten times and still laugh as hard as the first one. There are many great one-liners but also the concepts and ideas in the movie make you laugh. The cast is incredible in this movie and characters are developed, unlike other comedies. I actually cared about the characters because I knew them unlike other college movies where there is no depth to the characters. Not to ruin the plot, but there is a very good plot along with a well written script. The movie itself, without the comedy side, could even be a love-drama. Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid develop a relationship that you want to work which leads to an exciting romance story. But you are watching it for the laughs and Van Wilder doesn't disappoint. A great movie to watch when bored or with your friends over and over again. You'll be laughing throughout the whole movie while enjoying a good plot as well and an overall very underrated movie. "},{"Title":"Van Cheeze","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" National Lampoon's Van Wilder is yet another comedy that isn't all that funny. It's packed with hundreds of so-called jokes, but few of them are able to elicit anything other than groans. Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is the big man on campus at his college, having been attending for seven years (and no, he's not going for his doctorate). But things start to go wrong after he raises the ire of a well-connected frat guy by hitting on his girlfriend (Tara Reid), and in between vicious pranks against said frat guy, Van Wilder comes to the realization that maybe it's time for him to graduate. The film belongs to that dying comedy sub-genre, the gross-out flick. And this one takes things particularly far, forcing characters to eat dog semen. That'd all be fine, if any of this stuff was in the least bit funny - which it isn't. Reynolds is charming enough to hopefully survive this mess, but Reid just looks completely out of place here (wearing about a pound of make-up and speaking her lines with a sultry whisper, she seems to be auditioning for a Joe Eszterhas flick). Still, I will admit to having chuckled at an Erik Estrada cameo and the whole thing isn't as painfully boring as, say, American Pie - so you really could do worse. "},{"Title":"Mr. Ryan Reynolds is the whole movie","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this guy. He's a dude's dude. He is all of the above, awesomeness squared. He is my newest action/adventure/comedy hero. No, I am not gay. (He reminds me of a cousin I had who died too young in the Vietnam war... yeah, Mr. Reynolds would have taught me to drive like him... I miss my cousin.) Mr. Reynolds is the guy we all want to be but are afraid we just CAN'T be! Watching this I felt in the mix, one of the boys, our gang - all grown up and gone to college... and Mr. Reynolds is in charge and everyone agrees. And there is not an ounce, not the slightest minuscule smallest atomic part of a hint of any arrogance or snotty-ness what-so-ever - Mr. Reynolds *IS* Van Wilder ... and we all agree.I am now going to watch all of his movies. 10/10-LD_____________________________________________my bread http//www.joesbread.com/my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/PS funny, I always thought that star power was stupid... guess it is real and just not real until someone of Mr. Reynolds' caliber hits the big screen. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hmmm&#133;. Of the all new DVD releases for some reason I was drawn to this. Not Road To perdition or Insomnia&#133; this. Couldn't even say why I picked this up &#150; after all the trailer is bad, the film looks awful and even the sexy Tara Reid looks like an anorexic rake.Unsurprisingly I was right on all accounts. This film is bad, crude and highly offensive in places. Needless to say I loved every second of it. In the Vain of American Pie and Road Trip Van Wilder is a genuinely amusing film, okay not in the same league as even Road Trip, but the film has its moments.The story&#133; and I use that term lightly&#133; revolves around the titular van Wilder, starting his 7th year at college, the coolest guy on campus and very soon without his rich fathers money to fund him. What will he do? How will he make his tuition fees? Will&#133; oh who cares, lets face it all you are interested in are the gags. And for the first hour of the film they come quick and fast. And lets just say you will never look at a cream cake in the same light again&#133; The film hits the predictable serious bit, followed by the predictable ending and the gags do run out quick by the end.However that said I can think of worse ways to pass an hour or two, and watch out for the now standard outtakes on the end credits, some of which are more amusing than the last half hour of the film put together. An amusing effort&#133;. "},{"Title":"the man behind the party animal","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A raunchy comedy is usually little more than a porno with plots. Now, this isn't necessarily a bad thing, but what if you got something more out of these movies than a hard-on? It's not that 'Van Wilder' doesn't have enough bodily fluids and boobs to fill a hormone-crazed guy's appetite. It's just that this movie has enough intelligent undercurrents to keep you entertained between sex scenes. Numerous subplots with hilarious supporting characters keep the movie pumping, but the real feat here is the impact that the central plot leaves on you after the movie's over.Given this story has been done a thousand times (sexy/smart girl is at first disgusted by party guy's lifestyle until they teach each other the best aspects of both lives), there's something director Walt Becker did to make this story transcend the conventional banality of that plot line. When Ryan Reynolds (Van, the legendary party boy) and Tara Reid (Gwen, the intuitive/sexy newspaper reporter assigned to crack into his mind) make eye contact, there's enough sexual heat coming off the screen to bring a young viewer into puberty. Without spoiling anything I can say that if you let it, their relationship will teach you something about life, and the reason you live it.Sure many will say this is just another teen movie, but that wouldn't be giving it the credit it deserves. There's a humanity here, a living breathing soul in this movie, not to mention a lot of important issues - finding where you belong in the world, asking yourself if you're doing what you're doing because YOU want to or because someone else wants you to, coming to terms with your desires (no matter how twisted they are) and most convincingly, the psychology of Van, who is a brilliant and sensitive born leader.So hey, definitely watch this movie for the belly laughs and jiggling excess of skin, booze and partying. But the best part about 'Van Wilder' (and I was surprised by this) is that when it's over, you'll wish it wasn't. "},{"Title":"Overwhelmingly predictable, a recycled film","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I expected this film to have plenty of crude humor (and if you did not, be warned), but I did hope that the film would be funny within its genre. In fact, while there are certainly a few laughs to be found, the film is very stale, and all, or at least most of its humorous material is lifted from other, and better movies.The plot, and the romantic elements are also previously enjoyed to say the least, and I should be hard put to think of a more predictable film. Virtually every plot wrinkle (the film is too simple to credit with plot twists) can be seen coming a mile away, and it would not be difficult to predict nearly every prank or escapade before having seen the film.The strongest element of this film is the acting, with good work being done by Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid, who are both strong enough in their utterly unoriginal roles to prevent the film from being genuinely painful and unpleasant to watch. Nevertheless, the reliance on stock characterization is so prominent that one gets the curious impression that the filmmakers actually expect the audience to like the film better for it. Filmmakers have long used painted backdrops to create the impression of depth, but in this case, the filmmakers have taken live actors, and used them to paint a two dimensional backdrop of a story. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First off, I believe Van Wilder is one of the most underrated films ever. The comedy is truly something worth laughing for, it's got a pretty good script, great music, and Ryan Reynolds is excellent as Van Wilder.Van Wilder instantly became one of my favorite movies right after I watched it. I know National Lampoon has produced some failures lately, but this movie definitely is not one of them.The plot The coolest guy on campus (Van) has seven years of college under his belt, but would rather party than study. Van then meets a reporter who knows Van is purposely failing in school to avoid graduating and going out into the real world. Simple but funny and interesting plot.As I mentioned earlier, Ryan Reynolds is phenomenal as Van, and acts is part just perfectly in my opinion. Kal Penn shines as Taj, the awkward but lovable new transfer student from Bunglapoor, India. Honestly, I feel every character except Gwen (played by Tara Reid) was portrayed very well.Bottom line I love Van Wilder, it's a hilarious movie that really stands out among others. "},{"Title":"It's a thoroughly funny movie.","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie on Star Movies and find it outrageously funny.I like Ryan Reynolds more than Kal Penn.I liked Kal Penn when he played an Indian born and raised in U.S.A. like in 'Harold and Kumar go to Newcastle' and 'The Arrangement'.I think Tara Reid has acted really well considering her blatantly boisterous personality in real life.My favorite part is the scene where Ryan's father sees Ryan in a girl's outfit and in the end where Ryan is congratulated by his father.I recently saw 'Just Friends' and found it so cool although I did miss some scenes due to a few interruptions.And I found Tara Reid really sweet in 'My Boss's Daughter'. "}{"Title":"Another day off for Ferris Bueller","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Nice movie with no lack of rhythm or any pretension. Actors are doing a fair job, the bad guys are very bad and the good ones, smart enough to make us laugh. The movie is not worth the fee of a ticket but it entertains nicely the night. Sacred rules of movies are enforced  we have a story displayed at a decent rhythm. That's what I like about American movies, they never failes to fulfill the basics. As a french viewer, it is a fact that kicks in and here is the main reason why I gave a 6, which is a rather fair grade for a teen movie. Now, as I must write 10 lines to valid my comment, I hope u will apologize the last two ones which u have now fully read. Sorry about that... (stupid policy, by the way !). "},{"Title":"i wanna be i wanna be like VAN","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ryan Renold's witty, sarcastic humor never fails. His seven year stint at Coolige College is brought to a sudden halt when daddy refuses to extend his tuition dues. While Van searches for an ultimatum to keep him enrolled at the university, Gwen (Tara Reid), is researching Wilder for a human interest piece. Little does she know her interest piece will soon turn into a smoldering fire between the two, as she tries to understand Wilders' situation, and help him realize that there's more to life, such as her... Renolds and Reid give a good performance that supplies comic relief, and keeps you guessing. Throw in a little Taj,(Vans assistant) and a few warm and creamy Canoli's, (raunchy and HILARIOUS) and you have the perfect student comedy. "},{"Title":"Born To Be WilD - Er...","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van wilder, is so much of a fun, that even when sitting down to review it I am peeling off with laughter. This is a movie which teaches us a lesson, to face the world and its all antiques and not shy away from it. It presents this valuable lesson through trash American comedy.Ryan Reynolds, well I love this guy. Each and everyone of his movies he is SO cool. Tara Reid again is as incredibly sexy as ever. Kal Penn does his mojo of the sex frantic Indian. Now that I have told you about the actors lets get on with the story.Van Wilder is a movie about this son of a rich kid, who has been in college for six years, basically he doesn't want to graduate. He stays on, failing intentionally even though he has a bare bit to pass. Eventually when the editor of the college magazine tells Tara Reid to write a report on the legend named Van Wilder, she agrees, but she becomes fascinated with his character his party antiques, and falls for him. Just when all is going g on fine all hell breaks loose. Van Wilder is expelled. Eventually he begs out of the expulsion on the condition that he be allowed to stay just for his upcoming examinations. He takes up Gwen's advice and passes.This movie reminded me a lot about some recent punk comedies like Road Trip, Euro Trip and the Pie Series. National Lampoon is always good with their punk releases. Watch out for this one with some crazy crazy dialogs.A richly earned 8/10... "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think this was on Comedy Central one night when my other choices consisted of Lumpy Lout Who Lives In An Outer Bourough With An Inexplicably Hot Wife And Argues Incessantly With His Ridiculously Daft And Profane Parents And/Or Siblings While Perpetuating Only The Most Mundane Male Stereotypes Which Leave This Viewer Wondering Why His Hot Wife Doesn't Ditch His Boorish Ass and Sue Thomas, F.B. Eye. I chose Van Wilder. I was only familiar with the name of the movie, as I had long been threatening my friends with a Van concept movie night Okay, this time we're going to do it. Van Helsing and Van Wilder, one night, the battle to see which is worse. Well, Van Helsing turned out to be completely unwatchable, while Van Wilder was actually pretty funny and heartwarming in the tradition of dumb comedies like Zoolander (one of my favorites) and American Pie (not nearly as bad as it should have been). I think Ryan Reynolds is primarily responsible, he really pulled off the character, made you believe his motivations, held the whole thing together, blah blah blah. Tara Reid is coherent throughout for which she deserves an Oscar (Don't scoff, they gave best picture to Crash, remember?) And the supporting players pulled their weight. The script and direction was on target. If you're looking for dumb fun, and there's nothing else on, you'll probably like this film. "},{"Title":"College-natured comedy","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a brainless comedy, what can I say? It also may be the funniest movie of all time.Definitely wasn't made to delve into the deeper meanings of life or turn film into art, but it gives everyone some great life lessons in the process.Worrying is like a rocking chair. It gives you something to do, but doesn't get you anywhere.If you get off to comedies like Sideways, this probably isn't your cup of tea. But if you liked Animal House, you're in the money. Same comedy team, another college-themed movie, just as funny. "},{"Title":"Very Funny )","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a truly hilarious film ! There is gross out humor and even with all the antics there is no hard feelings between any of the characters involved. Leaving you feeling very upbeat and not guilty at laughing so hard because no one really gets scarred or hurt. It's like watching the coyote fall off a cliff as he chases the road runner you know that he's not going to get hurt.For my money this film is well worth owning on DVD and has plenty of value to view over and over again. I've added it to my collection and plan to enjoy it for many years to come.Easily in the top ten of comedy classics. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Porky's revisited- has the BEST gross-out scene of all time!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is part of a genre that was made famous by the various Porky's movies in the 80's- the school pranksters looking for the next huge party and pulling pranks all along the way.It is lowbrow, there is not enough T&A and the lead borders on bisexuality with his overly preened look.HOWEVER this movie has a ton of funny scenes and it is the champion comedy movie because it hosts the BEST gross-out prank of all time. My little sister literally had to run out of the room and puke when she saw it- so boys.. make sure you slip this movie to your unknowing date and watch the hilarious cringing that occurs when it is time to get back at the frat boys!!For that scene alone, this movie gets an 8.The rest of the movie is paint by numbers stuff- the girl who is dating a jerk is somehow drawn to the party boy because.. he knows how to enjoy life. Various other well worn plot vehicles cruise by as well, but you really have to see that one scene that involves pastry- it's a historical accomplishment in the world of jokes! "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just saw the movie because of the actor, Ryan Reynolds, and didn't expect anything. But this was far better then what I hoped for. It is simple enough a fun movie that doesn't require anything from the watcher. But WARNING!!! Do not eat any kind of bread while watching this movie, and you might find it hard to eat bread after seeing it. I have that problem now, if you've seen this movie you know why.Still, its a movie wort watch, but the girl in this movie (whats her name again?) is what stops Van Wilder from 10/10. It's like she is unaffected by everything that happens, and talk with the same boring voice through the whole movie-_- but, watch this one! "},{"Title":"A very hysterical film for anyone who digs comedy!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder, starring Ryan Reynolds and Tara Reid, is a very, very, very funny movie. I laughed like crazy when I saw this for the first time. Reynolds and Reid portray great lead characters that are sure to have audiences captivated. The storyline here is very interesting. The film also offers a incredible amount of memorable moments.Van Wilder, the title character, has been a college student for the better part of a decade when a beautiful young lady named Gwen Pearson is brought to his attention. She has been given the assignment of examining Van and his background. Gwen's Boyfriend, Richard Bagg, is a jealous lunatic who is the head of a fraternity that is located on campus. Richard is seeking to eventually become a doctor while hoping that Gwen will someday be his wife. A series of events results in Van receiving the opportunity to show everyone what he is made of by choosing a degree program and graduating.I was most amused here when Richard Bagg defecated in a trash can located in an administrator's office. Right before his exam for a medical school, Gwen gave Richard a protein shake. Little did he know that the shake was spiked with a substance called colon blow. Richard hastily finished his exam so he could go to the bathroom. During the exam, breaks were prohibited. He still had people to meet in one of the offices so he went in and was greeted by everybody. At this point, his intestines were about to explode. With no choice but to get rid of this miserable tension, Richard proceeded to relieve his bowels in an empty trash can in the office. While he's defecating, the other people in the room are just as shocked as they can be. One of them, a woman, leaves because she suddenly gets the feeling that she needs to vomit. Richard even says at one point here that he is bleeding. This sequence with our bad guy is clearly the film's highlight.If you like comedy, you'll love this movie! See it, I guarantee it that you'll be impressed. Laughs are everywhere in this silly, wacky flick featuring a delightful cast. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I expected to hate this and was quite surprised to find it was very funny. very well made, and some excellent set pieces. The rather disgusting but very funny scene of the rich kids eating the dog cum cakes. the fact that the rich boyfriend could'nt have sex for longer than 10 seconds. the film is generally a large amount of national lampoons animal house and some good character. Van Wilder is excellently played, not too hard and not too far. All the main actors work very hard especially van's 2 room mates who develop very well during the course of the movie.It's nice to see the back story of how Van helps the nerds and the swim team and various other parts of the school.I didn't really care too much for the girlfriend, and the pledges were very irritating . I've always hated the entire concept of the Greek system in American schooling, it totally stamps on the concept of the underdog and those who dare to be different. Van and his friends and the geeks are the true stars of this film, especially the Asian guy and the black dude.at the end of the day this is a well made and very funny movie with an interesting message and a good outcome. it may not be totally feel good factor stuff but it's well worth a look if you haven't seen it. "}{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites. Not so much for the humor, because there was plenty of it, or the superb acting by Ryan Reynolds, but for the underlining message that everyone can be great if given the chance. Everyone is different and great in there own right. The show was not about a cocky, overbearing rich college boy, it was much more. It showed that there is always something good about everyone no matter who they are, you just need to find it. The humor and acting style of Reynolds was perfect and he did an excellent job. Tara Reid, though nice to look at, lacked in the acting department. Taj was very funny. Over all a very funny and enjoyable movie with a deeper message if you look for it. "},{"Title":"Van The Man","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a teen comedy with some quite repulsive jokes and if you can't give a comedy like that a chance then you won't like it. But in it's genre you could choose a lot worse one to watch than this movie.The plot goes something like this. Van Wilder has been studying in college for 7 long years specializing in partying. Journalist Gwen Pearson is hired to make a story about him for the school newspaper and they start falling in love. Trouble is on the way in the form of Gwens annoying boyfriend.At parts when the atmosphere starts to disappear because of a joke that doesn't hit the spot the movie already flails a joke at you that is much better. The movie is predictable but it includes a bunch of good jokes, appealing (but typical) story and more good one liners than you can shake a fist at. Definitely worth a watch if teen comedy is something that you can handle. "},{"Title":"Gets better every time you watch it","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I cannot understand why Van Wilder has received so much bad attention. This film leaves American pie standing. The gags are childish, yes, but also hilarious and you don't have to sit thinking about the jokes for ten minutes before you get them. There are so many funny scenes, including one i cant watch and has put me off iced buns forever! Ryan Reynolds is so unbelievably gorgeous and his bum is so cute. Not only that though he manages to carry off the jokes and develops the character into someone you want to invite out for a drink. Eye candy for both men and women. A must watch. To get the best out of the film watch it a few times, there are loads of jokes you miss first time around. "},{"Title":"Fantastic-hilarious!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Van Wilder is a fantastic film! As a female who does not normally go for the 'gross-out' in your face humor of films like American Pie, Party liaison manages to hit the perfect element of college humor while still appealing to those whose college memories are quickly fading. Ryan Reynolds is magic. His facial expressions and comic timing make the movie as does his co-star 'Taj'. The only downside is the not quite spot on casting of Tara Reid as the intellectual journalist/love interest. (Much better cast as the lovable airhead in Josie and the Pussy cats) I would recommend it to anyone who needs a pick me up after a long week at work. Grab a pizza and a beer. Recline and just enjoy some light hearted, seriously gross comedy at work. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is by far one of the most outrageous,funny entertaining movie i have ever seen in my life.me and my mates can go on forever about this movie reenacting the scenes and stuff. Its so funny i don't know were the people come up with these ideas.just everything about it the b*$#& monthly mags up on the wall when there well shall i say satisfying the dog.or taj mahals sexual stuff ups.And not to mention one of the hottest girls in the world in the cast (tara Reid) Reynolds has this distinct stifler feel about him i cant say hes funnier (because come on stifler is a legend) but he is very close to that stifler quality.anyone who has knocked this film in anyway should be ashamed of them selves you have tried to take away the quality experience of watching this movie from thousands of others. any one who's reading this go and see the movie believe me you wont regret it And remember THATS NO BONG ITS FOR MY SLONG! ha ha peace out "},{"Title":"American pie's time is up!!!!!!!","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the greatest teen flick i have ever seen,honestly,this beats American pie,Road trip,Scary movie and Not another teen movie.Van wilder is up for his 7th year at coolage when his dad thinks he is a bad investment and cuts his cash flow for the year leaving him to make money the old fashion way.....Being able to throw one heck of a party.After shifting himself from girl to girl he finally falls for Tara Reid,A school reporter who has been hired to write a paper on him leaving to drastic resultsRyan is brilliant in this and was born to play the part,Tara Reid is good but not brilliant but still better then her role in American pie.Its a great laugh but still with an love story feel about it leaving a tear..........4/5 Ryan 10/10  "},{"Title":"I waited for it to be funny....","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All of my friends who saw Van Wilder told me it was hilarious, that I haaad to see it. They must have been stoned off their a***s. This movie has been touted as the next Animal House (in fact I believe that was part of the advertisement), but like some of the other reviewers have stated, the only similarities were Tim Matheson (who basically plays the same character he had in She's All That) and the fact that it takes place at a college. Animal House was fresh, well written, and had an incredibly talented cast. This movie consisted of one beaten-to-death gag after another (i.e. anything sexual with a pastry). Tara Reid proves once and again that she absolutely cannot act and the other actors' perfomances were bland at best. None of them had any sense of comedic timing, which made the film drag on forever and ever and ever and ever.......... Brainless comedies work when at least some of the material is original, the script is somewhat coherant, and you have actors who understand comedy. Van Wilder has none of those things. Watch if you're under the influence of something, that's the only way you'll get a laugh out of it. "},{"Title":"Had me laughing for 2 hours...","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The farting alone made it worth the watch! Say what you want about the movie, but it had me laughing my @ss off and when it comes to comedy, thats all I care about, well done, even though its a retardedly stupid movie.... "},{"Title":"Far and away the worst film of 2002!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  VAN WILDER PARTY LIAISON (2002)THE GOOD--Near the beginning of the film there are a couple of funny moments, one being Taj's 'audition' scene, I loved his last name (Badalandabad).--I wouldn't really count this as a good point, but the film does succeed during one scene, and that is in the aftermath of the 'dog w**king' sequence. It's not that I found the scene funny, it's that I found the scene gross. Considering Van Wilder Party Liaison is one of the many gross-out films of today, you can say it succeeded in making we go ew and look away.THE BAD--This movie has no realism to it. Teen gross-outs like American Pie and Road Trip had a certain amount of realistic humour, which made them funny. But this one is all very unbelievable. People suddenly burst into fire whenever they feel like it, things are always in the right time at the right place, and teachers always want to have sex with students. My biggest beef with this aspect of the film is this Why on Earth is Van Wilder considered so special anyway? Oh yeah, he throws cool parties and has good sex advice. How does that get him in good with the police (who say his word is good to enough to guarantee that no bad business has been going on at parties), the teachers.practically everyone in the community? It also doesn't help that I could give two craps about this character, who was mainly annoying and boringly performed by Ryan Reynolds.--The romance story in the film fails completely, there is no chemistry between Gwen and Van, and both of their characters aren't interesting. The outcome of their relationship, and of the film itself is extremely predictable, and follows all those annoying steps to becoming another terrible teen comedy.--I would consider this a gross-out movie as mentioned above, but would I consider it a comedy? No way on Earth! Too many of the jokes cop-out (especially the ones at the start) instead of being daring and new. The film plays on old racial stereotypes and character clichés, all of which can be found in other good teen comedies. It is beyond me how anyone could find the dog masturbation scene funny. That was just beyond disgusting and terrible, by far the worst attempt at comedy in the film.--This movie feels slow at 92 minutes, dragging on with pointless scene after pointless scene, making it a terrible bore to sit through. It lacks the zest and the actual funny jokes that make the aforementioned American Pie and Road Trip so entertaining.RATING1/10 - By far the worst film of 2002, and also the worst of the teen gross-out 'comedy' genre.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDAmerican Pie (8/10) American Pie 2 (7/10) Not Another Teen Movie (6/10) Road Trip (8/10) Sorority Boys (6/10) "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just love this movie, it's fun and it has a few nice chicks in it ;D. what makes it so good is that it inspires you and you'll get good laughs all the time. "}{"Title":"Lighthearted romp","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just watched NL's Van Wilder and liked it a whole lot more than I expected to.  Well, actually, after a long week of work, I was interested in something mindless and funny.  This movie fit that need. I enjoyed it becasue I didn't ask much of it.I was pleasantly surprised by Ryan Reynold's performance, which I thought was dead-on.  I thought he gave just the right amount of over the top and tongue in cheek delivery.  The thing I liked least about the film was Tara Reid. She looked great in some scenes and in others she looked like she had been on a bender.  There must be thousands of beautiful blond actresses that would have been better.If you're easily offended, it's not for you.  But for mindless humor, it's AOK.  "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLY FUNNY!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is one of the funniest films I have seen in some time! Most of my friends saw it in the theaters-- they all own the DVD now-- which is what I viewed-- and even hearing about some of the funniest sequences before I watched it, I still busted a gut! The actors are talented and well-directed-- the comedic timing in this flick is spot on! It is far better then much of the teen crap that is out there, and I defy anyone to find a movie with more laughs per minute than this one. It seems like some of the people that didn't like the movie feel that much of the humor is too broad or scatological. But hello? Is anything in this movie any grosser than a girl using human semen as hair gel (Something about Mary)or a man drinking Bull cum???(Kingpin) I don't think so. The farrelly's might have got just as ripped for their gags, but the fact remains they had huge studios behind those pictures and I think a lot of people are less apt to hop off a commercial bandwagon. Most of these reviews are from people who really love the film and who have watched it more than once, or who now own the dvd (a sign of a cult classic.) As for the knuckleheads who try to claim that this isn't as good as the 'classic' ANIMAL HOUSE-- I would suggest they go back a few decades and read the reviews of THAT film when it came out! People said many of the same things. This is definitely worth renting-- but be forewarned-- it's a very broad comedy. For those believing they're high-brow or those easily offended(mostly people who have zero sense of humor) you might not enjoy this-- but PLEASE don't try to say that Animal House or American Pie are better flicks. They are just as gross and a lot less funny. This movie even has heart. The lead characters are all endearing and it will definitely make you want to go back to school. This movie will stand the test of time!  "},{"Title":"Amusing and Likable","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mildly amusing comedy about a college student who prefers to stay at college and hasn't graduated for seven years. Ryan Reynolds is charming as Van Wilder, whose antics make him a hero among his fellow students and a nemesis for the teaching staff. He falls in love with a girl and a battle to win her heart from her irritating boyfriend begins. This leads to the funniest and grossest moment of the entire film, when Van Wilder sends the boyfriend and his chums a load of pastries filled with, well, just watch the film!It's light-hearted good fun and certainly worth a watch. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've been reading some of the other posts and you would think this was the worsed ever film! wihch it is not, ok is not going to win an oscar or anything but for what it is i thought it was great! Ryan Reynolds is a super actor and we have all seen Tara Reid before! by reading the other posts on this film you would think it was meant to be serious when it is a light hearted comedy in the same genre as American Pie and Road trip, but different they are not trying to teach kids morals in this film! this is a film to sit back with friends and an ice cold beer and have a laugh! well done Ryan Reynolds who for me is a really good up coming actor! Overall the film is not going to win any awards but if you like a laugh and a easy to watch film then this is it! "},{"Title":"Likeable lead actor","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The National Lampoon movie brand name is back with a vengeance after almost a decade in mothballs. Like the movie that started it all, Animal House, Van Wilder is set at a college and is filled with the kind of gross-out humour you expect (and some you don't) from National Lampoon, but it also has a lot of heart. Van Wilder is a good guy, and as played by the Canadian-born Ryan Reynolds is the most likeable lead in a Lampoon movie to date. The film is stuffed with questionable sight gags, and pooh jokes that will make 14 year-old boys laugh hysterically, but it is Reynold's charismatic performance that really sells this piece. Without him this would be a much lesser movie, but luckily he's here and his performance turns Van Wilder into one of the funniest films to come down the pike in a while. Look for cameos by Erik Estrada and Animal House alum Tim Matheson. "},{"Title":"really funny","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i want to punch who ever said that van wilder is a ferris wannabe.  any given minute of this movie is funnier than the whole ferris bueller's day off. and ryan reynolds is a better actor (and funnier)than matthew broderick has ever been.  reynolds is a natural actor and a very likeable character. i have never understood why anybody thinks matthew broderick is a good actor.  i have never seen him on the stage, but in all of his movies, he is completely unbelievable, delivering his lines very choppy with little or no emotion, almost as if he hates acting, bored by the movie he is starring in, and wants to deliberately sabotage it by sucking.so what if this movie has gross humor.  it's accompanied by an amazing main character and a hilarious script.  the dialogue is absolutely hilarious. see this movie if you like teen comedies. it's better than movies like the amarican pie's and road trip.see this movie if you want to laugh, because i guarantee you will. "},{"Title":"An appealing lead, a few chuckles, but mostly dire.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ryan Reynolds is appealing as the Ferris wannabe. And the movie has a few chuckles, but for the most part, it's just unfunny, dull. When will today's filmmakers realize, that you don't have to rely on grosser than gross gags, to be funny? This movie is a flawless example, of what is wrong with comedy in movies, nowadays. *1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Its nothing new but its funny","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is nothing new, it's typical teen movie with sex, sick humour and an exaggerated view on teen life. If you didn't like American Pie or Road trip you won't like this -it is that simple! If you like teen movies you will love this film; I think it's better than the other teen movies because it's so watchable. The story is cliche and the ending so predictable but who cares-its still very funny! Ryan Reynolds continues his work as the funniest actor in Hollywood at he moment. If you have seen Two Guys and A girl (Ryans old sitcom) you will know Berg-in this film Ryan plays a similar role as the crazy, likeable Van wilder. You just have to sit back and laugh at the confidence of Van and the silliness of everything else. The films not original but I still think it has a lot to offer "},{"Title":"Very Good .... Very Cute","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard that this movie came out in the theatres and never went to go and see it... I did not really care for a ridiculous movie with comedy that made no sense... 0) However, I am glad that I finally rented it at the video store and was completely angry with my self for not watching in the theatres.  Van Wilder(Ryan Reynolds) was a fantastic movie. It was funny and I never stopped laughing. I fell in love with Ryan Reynolds. He was the best choice to play Van.  His spunky attitude and facial expressions alone are unique. I was not impressed Tara Reid as Gwen(Van's girlfriend). She had no personality and was very dry. Though her blonde hair and pouty lips made her seem attractive to the boys. But for those of us out there that want to watch talent and not puke pick someone else to play these type of roles. The movie in all was great. I now own the movie on DVD and I have watched it constantly. I have yet to get tird of it. So my vote is on. IT COULD BE THE NEXT ANIMAL HOUSE.....  "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of Fun!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Listen, I didn't expect to like it this much. As Citizen Kane broke ground in cinematography and storytelling, Bill Glibmore takes on the usually derided genre of teen comedy and comes out making it into an art form. Canine scrota, a sadly neglected theme of all modern film (why?), figure prominently--and adds laughs-a-plenty. I do not know which aspect made me laugh harder or turn the mirror of introspection more inward (I am a sentimentalist), but I think it was--to the untrained eye--the scene after incomprehensible scene...wait, history will show the genius...do not ask me to explain...a fistful of walnuts??? I have them for you!!! And so does Van Blixen, the movie. "}{"Title":"FANTASTIC FILM! INCREDIBLY FUNNY!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is one of the funniest films I have seen in some time! Most of my friends saw it in the theaters-- they all own the DVD now-- which is what I viewed-- and even hearing about some of the funniest sequences before I watched it, I still busted a gut! The actors are talented and well-directed-- the comedic timing in this flick is spot on!  It is far better then much of the teen crap that is out there, and I defy anyone to find a movie with more laughs per minute than this one.  It seems like some of the people that didn't like the movie feel that much of the humor is too broad or scatological. But hello? Is anything in this movie any grosser than a girl using human semen as hair gel (Something about Mary)or a man drinking Bull cum???(Kingpin) I don't think so. The farrelly's might have got just as ripped for their gags, but the fact remains they had huge studios behind those pictures and I think a lot of people are less apt to hop off a commercial bandwagon. Most of these reviews are from people who really love the film and who have watched it more than once, or who now own the dvd (a sign of a cult classic.) As for the knuckleheads who try to claim that this isn't as good as the 'classic' ANIMAL HOUSE-- I would suggest they go back a few decades and read the reviews of THAT film when it came out! People said many of the same things.  This is definitely worth renting-- but be forewarned-- it's a very broad comedy. For those believing they're high-brow or those easily offended(mostly people who have zero sense of humor) you might not enjoy this-- but PLEASE don't try to say that Animal House or American Pie are better flicks. They  are just as gross and a lot less funny. This movie even has heart. The lead characters are all endearing and it will definitely make you want to go back to school.  This movie will stand the test of time! "},{"Title":"Better Then I Expected","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder(Ryan Reynolds) has been in college for seven years now and he's not ready to leave just yet. But the problem is that he doesn't have any more money to pay for his tuition but along with his personal assistant from India Taj(played by the hilarious Kal Penn) and his journalist girlfriend Gwen(Tara Reid) he will do anything to stay in college. This movie was better then i expected, it was quite funny even though it was mostly gross humor. Anyways, I would give Van Wilder 7/10 "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've seen in the past year","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a college student, I felt that this movie satirizes college life hilariously. The dog scene was kind of hard to watch but other than that, I was busting up.  Yeah this movie is distasteful and sometimes stupid but there are lots of people that are amused by that kind of stuff, including me. The Indian guy's performance was the funniest I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"Expectations were higher","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is worth seeing at least once. There are some choice lines that you might want to know so you can join conversations. I was mildly entertained but the laughs were too few and far between. However, i was impressed with Ryan Reynolds acting, he is usually so underrated and this movie has done nothing for him. Comeon hollywood give this little Canadian boy a chance. I was left cold by tara reids preformance and i definatly felt no chemistry between the leading lady and main man but i will give every movie the benifit of the doubt. and this one lost it. But its worth sitting through just once. If he's here whos running hell? - you'll see "},{"Title":"Wild?, Yes! ... Original?, Sorta.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is your movie if you like low brow humor and T&A.  You do?  Well, there is nothing wrong with that.  I guess this movie is what you would expect coming from the National Lampoon's family.  You don't get a master piece, but you do get your laughs.  The best scene was probably the Pre-med Dik exam scene.  Other movies have done a similar go at this, but I guess it just never gets old.  Good stuff.  There are allot of other good laughs revolving around sex.  High Quality! You got to believe it. lol.  My best advice is don't expect any American Pie type movie.  Yeah, there is parties, sex, and low brow humor ... but its not as good as that movie was.  So basically I am saying ... don't think you are going to see an American Pie or Road Trip and you will enjoy the comedy.  Defiantly worth at least watching once. "},{"Title":"You know .......","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are always going to people who enjoy movies aimed at the lowest common denominator.  That´s why Hollywood makes so much money despite movies devoid of fresh ideas, plot or acting ability. Reynolds is the only actor in this movie.  The rest were locals standing outside the  studio hunting for autographs or spare change.  And Reynolds has his moments as the cool character everyone wishes they were.  But that´s also where the fun stops.  Dogsemen in Twinkies just goes from being funny to embarrassing.  Much like moviemakers who can´t truly scare the audience but decide to gross them out with intestines and blood instead. I don´t know why this movie has been compared to Animal House - they have nothing in common. "},{"Title":"Two disgusting scenes apart, this is reasonable stuff.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My friends recommended this film to me so I went to see it. I would give it 3 stars out of 5. The film did have its funny moments without doubt although it was nowhere near as good as American Pie 1 and 2 The reason I have given 3 stars is because it contains 2 disgusting scenes including old grannys doing sexual stuff with young men aged 20something. These scenes were truly sickening to watch and nearly made me vomit. Apart from that this is watchable and amusing stuff from National Lampoon "},{"Title":"Nothing to do? Then take a look at this new college-flick..","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. But don't get your hopes up folks, it's really not THAT good! It's just another college-flick, perfect for those times when your brain can't handle Schindler's List or Memento. Fine chix, crazy fellas, disgusting pranks and the obligatory nudity, mix it all together and you've got Van Wilder! Enjoy  "},{"Title":"Feel good movie","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the commercials for this movie on TV  I figured that it was gonna be an extension of American Pie. Boy was I wrong...it was the funniest shi*t  I ever saw.  I haven't laughed so hard at the movies in a while. I don't care if half the critics here think that the material is trite and cliched. Sure, we've all seen the typical college movie numerous times. In this one Ryan Reynolds plays the infamous Van Wilder  The student who just can't get out of college and for the past seven years has been partying and having fun. You get all the elements- the hot chick, the uptight boyfriend, a little nudity.   I personally think that the formula worked- for 3 reasons 1)Ryan Reynolds impeccable comic talent (especial his timing and delivery of those quirky one liners) 2) Kal Penn- (pay attention during his interview scene) 3) The rocking  soundtrack.Overall, the movie was beautifully shot; edited nicely as well. The movie flows with great ease and surely delivers that feel good sensation. Keep an eye out Kim Smith, that sexy guess model. She has a  little cameo role. This has been the best National Lampoons work so far. Keep up the good work!  "},{"Title":"Side-Splitting Comedy","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      For those who enjoyed American Pie, hold on to your seats, here comes another one of the high school/college genre films.  This movie is one of the most side splitting comedies I have seen in a long time, I laughed so damn hard.  Now I will warn you there is one scene in the movie that is not for the weak stomach.  Even to this day, some of my friends will fast forward through this particular part of the movie.  I'm not going to tell you what it is, but I assure you there will be no mistake when you see what I'm talking about.  Hint  You will never look at eclairs the same way ever again!  Despite that, I guaranty you will laugh your ass off.  Don't miss this film!!!!!!!!!   P.S. - Don't sit down to this movie being critical and looking for an Oscar, do it simply just to HAVE FUN!! "}{"Title":"great guy","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being at college is the best thing in your life. Sometimes you get even scared when you realize that you are close to graduate. Still, you can't hide forever, so, the next thing to come up is to enjoy the same way the end of it as you enjoyed all the passed years. Also, you can't miss the fun out of this, so watch it. And bow to the chicks ) "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie just came out but to me it is already a classic of its genre. That being said, this may well be my favorite National Lampoon movie. It might take a college or older person to apreciate it fully though. Absolutely hilarious in a somewhat immature way, but full of good lessons for life. On a side note; I personally dont think Tara Reid is very hot unless you go for the 10-13 year old girls with lots of makeup... I'd say her hair and voice were her best assets in this movie.I don't own more than 10 movies but I may very well buy this. For most people I know, this is a movie that is still hilarious after seeing it once or twice. Overall I gave this an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Give it a shot","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went through the comments for this movie and there seems to be a recurring theme of people angry that this movie was billed as the Animal House of the twentieth century or a movie that disgraces the National Lampoon name. Let me just give you a quick opinion of the movie.  It was funny, it had a nice love story, and Ryan Reynolds gave a fantastic performance.  Now on to your arguments. Yes, the movie was dubbed as the Animal House of today, which it admittingly was not.  But that isn't the fault of the movie or it's actors.  This was the fault of one critic who jumped the gun and expressed his appreciation for this movie a little too zealously.  The second point is the disgrace of the National Lampoon name.  The National Lampoon name is already disgraced. Let's not joke about it they have a few good movies but the majority of them are utter crap.  I don't think I have to look any further than Vegas Vacation or Loaded Weapon I to prove that point.  Van Wilder brought a little light back to the National Lampoon name. In short, Forget what the critics said, forget it's a National Lampoon movie and go watch the flick again with an open mind instead of all these expectations that no movie could ever live up to. "},{"Title":"Extremely Average","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At one time National Lampoon's movies were hysterical, now they have funny moments and this is one of those movies.  Van has been attending the same college for the past 7 years.  Initially it seems that he is doing it just to p**s off his father but there could be more to it than that.  When his father visits he finds Van throwing the biggest party of the year and that his fellow students look upon Van with awe.  Dad puts a stop to all that by refusing to pay Van's way any longer.  The rest of the movie deals with Wilder finding ways to stay in school, falling in love, and realizing there is more to himself than he initially thought.This is of course a formula movie.  Unfortunately it isn't exactly a successful one.  The story is relatively weak, the humor falls flat on it's face often, the acting is average (Ryan Reynolds character of Van seems very similar to his Berg of Two Guys and a Girl fame) and you really don't care about the characters that much.  The movie wasn't bad; it just wasn't all that good.  There were some funny moments but they were few and far between. For a good movie everyone should skip this and go to Van's father's (Tim Matheson) early work and see National Lampoon's Animal House.  That was great!!! This was just average.  "},{"Title":"Very funny movie","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very funny although my wife did not watch it as she does not like this type of humor.   What I should like to alert viewers with the DVD is the choice between standard and widescreen.  I started with the widescreen version and it did not look widescreen, only masked to look that way.   I memorized a certain scene in W/S and then looked at the same frame in Standard and I saw more of the image both vertically and horizontally.  So in this instance this W/S version is just a gimmick.   I do this test with all the dvds that give me that option, some are real w/s and some are not.    "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is simply a hilarious movie. I do not know why did critics write bad things about this movie. This movie has some great humour. The indian guy was the best in the movie. I think the critics are too old to judge movies like this. I give this movie a 10 out of 10. It has loads of fun. It is so funny that as soon as it came out on DVD I bought it. The DVD also has some good outtakes and deleted scenes. One more thing you will never eat a pastry again after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, yet Hilarious","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has the college movie formula beautiful girl with uptight, preppie boyfriend is wooed by the protagonist.  Ridiculously gross scenes ensue.  However, despite Teck's horrid acting (I'm sure he's a good person, just not actor) and the plot, Ryan Reynold's charisma and quick one-liners save the day.  This movie was damned hilarious.This is basically one of those movies you will either hate, or learn not to take it too seriously and enjoy it immensely.  Probably should have given this an 8 instead of 7. "},{"Title":"redeeming","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't care what anyone else says, this movie was great! it was hilarious, and had all the elements. Hell, I'd even call it a feel good movie! After some of the rather pathetic lampoon movies of the past, this one redeems the name, it was hilarious! Yes, in typical National Lampoon fashion! Loved it! "},{"Title":"Better than the National Lampoon Vacation series.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie was funnier and grosser than Animal House, or Porky's, or Revenge of the Nerds.  There was no long boring parts in the middle, like in There's Something About Mary.  This movie puts the National Lampoon's Vacation series to shame. This film should be logged as the official definition of Sophomoric humor.  I mean that in a good way. Significantly above average. "},{"Title":"Wow ,. a college movie ?!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is such a cookie cutter movie. It was hard to tell if scriptbot 2.03 or 2.04 wrote it. Full of college movie cliches ,. the evil uptight guy with the sexy girl,. the geeky friend that the cool guy is helping.Whats the point ? There is none, this movie shouldnt have been made. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of all time!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is no doubt one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  Ryan Reynolds plays the part to perfection, his subtleties make all this difference in this instant classic.  Almost every second of this movie is hilarious and original comedy.  Eric Estrada's part is an example of the comic genius entwined throughout the whole movie.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a great movie with 1,000 quotes to be taken from it. Don't thank me, thank penicillin. "},{"Title":"Peters out","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At the start of Van Wilder, I was amused enough to keep watching. But by the end, it became one of those guess I'll leg this out movies. And while they probably didn't shoot it in sequence, it felt like the actors were doing the same thing -- waiting for it to wrap up. Having spent 5 1/2 alcohol-soaked years in college, my main problem with this film is that what passes for college craziness isn't all that crazy. Come on, a guy spends seven years in college, he better find cooler parties than this. And he's the one RUNNING the parties. It just didn't click.Beyond that, I didn't buy Ryan Reynolds as a college lifer or Tara Reid as an aspiring journalist. And while I smiled seeing Otter from Animal House in this National Lampoon venture, it only reminded how much better you can do the drunken college idiot genre. My advice Watch Animal House again. You'll get more laughs from a second, third or twentieth viewing of that than you will from a first-time viewing of Van Wilder. Noble effort, but still...swing and a miss. "},{"Title":"Mostly unfunny, but you have to like Van Wilder himself","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only thing good about this movie (besides lots of hot girls) is Van Wilder himself. He could easily have been taken straight out of Animal House, and this movie could have lived up to that classic with a decent script and better actors. But it's hard to carry a film on one person's charisma; I mean, Animal House was fun because all the characters were lovable and you really could root for them. Plus they had a cool ending, not the quick-patch Back to School one they tacked on to this one.Van Wilder's two toadies, a wacky blond black guy and an even wackier Indian guy take a lot of the blame for forcing this to be a one-person movie. They aren't just boring and one-dimensional, they seem to be acting that way on purpose. But the worst part of the whole movie is the villain (Tara Reid's boyfriend). He's so predictable and stereotypical that you can't force yourself to believe anyone ever really acts like that. All he needed was a curly mustache to twirl while cackling.All that said, it's a movie you can still watch and wring some laughs out of on a lazy Saturday afternoon. Van Wilder the guy is funny, but that's about it. It probably helps to watch it drunk. "},{"Title":"It shouldn't work...","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It shouldn't be funny. It should be the worst bit of gross-out comedy ever churned out, until the next one anyway. There's nothing original about it, the actors only just manage to act and the jokes are your staple sex and toilet gags. And I should be in the position where I've just given this 0 out of 10.But I'm not. Somewhere in this mishmash of predictable plot, crude scripting, bad acting and it's many other faults, there's the funniest film I've seen in ages. Ryan Renyolds somehow pulls it together creating an hysterically funny comedy with a trace of tender romance thrown in. Van Wilder would seem to be the exception to '38 wrongs don't make a right' rule of film "},{"Title":"Gut-busting laughter!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I, like many, thought this movie would suck.  I was convinced by one of my best friends to go and get the movie, and guess what ... we are no longer friends!  Just Kidding!!!  This movie has some sequences that had me rolling in the aisles with laughter.  And, to boot, you will never look at a eclaire the same way again! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as the critics say it is.","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is a fairly enjoyable gross-out comedy. There are some good moments in the film particularly the scenes with the bulldog and the fate of Tara Reid's boyfriend. It's not the best comedy I've seen but it's not the worst either.  "},{"Title":"funny enough so that I don't feel bad about watching it by mistake )","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend and I actually went to see this movie by mistake. I made her pick the movie and she wanted to watch a comedy. She actually thought Van Wilder was Mr. Deeds starring Adam Sandler. ) I was actually surprised she picked this one and when we saw a trailer for Mr. Deeds before this movie came on, she realized she just dragged me into the wrong movie.I did enjoy this movie. We were laughing every two or three minutes and we thought the jokes were OK (even the sicker ones). Good enough, but in my book, this would still be the kind of movie I'd only watch if there was no other movie available, or if I thought it was Mr. Deeds. ) "},{"Title":"National Lampoon's scores another big hit. Hilarious, yet crude, fun!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  National Lampoon's scores big with Van Wilder. Another great film from the comedy masterminds. Probably one of the best college films since Animal House!Van Wilder is a young man in college. He has been there for 7 years, and is not looking to graduate anytime soon. When his father decides not to pay his tuition anymore, he decides to try to make some money on his own, so he does not have to leave the life he loves.The movie is hysterical! The scene with the eclaires just made me cringe and laugh ant the same time. The DVD is great. The menus are just fantastic, and totally original. If you have the chance, rent the DVD.Definately worth a look, if you are not easily offended by gross humour. Here's hoping that National Lampoon's starts coming out with some more movies in the near future. I missed them dearly.Farrelly Brothers, take a look at this and learn! "},{"Title":"Who the man?","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  IF you look up the film National Lampoon's Van Wilder on the Internet Movie Database someone has posted a review which, among many other cerebral observations, says it's `an aggressively funny movie, unashamed by its bad taste' featuring `humanitarian philanthropy'. Okay, professor, sounds like you need a party.And, yes, as you may have already guessed, it's arranging such gatherings that is the forte of Mr Wilder. It's also his salvation when Vance Wilder Senior cuts him off without a dime when the old man discovers he's been paying his son's tuition at Coolidge College for seven years with no sign of a graduation.That's basically the whole plot right there. What follows is a series of gags so base in their derivation that I can't even hint at their exact nature in a family newspaper such as this. At first it just seems like they're trying clumsily to out-gross the Farrelly Brothers but the humour finds its own level and, once you get over the initial recoil, a lot of it is pretty funny.Ryan Reynolds (who?) is Van while the angelic Tara Reid plays college newspaper reporter Gwen Pearson who is charged by her down-market editor with getting the scoop on Coolidge's party god. Reid now has the distinction of playing America's dizziest blonde in Josey and the Pussycats and now the brainiest-ever teen-movie girl (still blonde). At first she hates Wilder, but then&#133;There are a couple of strong supporting characters in Teck Holmes as Van's right-hand man and Kal Penn as Taj Mahal Badalandabad, an Indian exchange student whom Wilder hires as his `assistant' in the open scenes. (Penn's other acting credits include playing `Fez Boy' and `Nerdy Kid'.) Daniel Cosgrove is also good as Van's evil frat-boy nemesis.So essentially this is Ferris Bueller's Day Off meets Animal House. Okay, it's not Au Revoir Les Enfants, but, as with many of these gross-out comedies, the basic theme is `don't hurt people and have fun with everything and life will be good'. And there's always a place for that. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dirty? You bet!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  National Lampoon's Van Wilder is the best movie I've seen all day. It's also the only movie I've seen all day, but on with my review.Ryan Reynolds from the defunct Two Guys and A Girl plays Van Wilder, a normal run-of-the-mill college student who's majoring in leisure studies - except he's been at Coolidge College for seven years. Reynolds does a great job as Van, who is absolutely hilarious and steals every scene that he's in.If you're easily offended, don't watch this movie, and don't waste our time complaining about how the jokes involving dogs and eclairs made you sick, because we don't want to hear it. Has a college movie without dirty jokes ever been made? With the exception of With Honors, which I really liked, I can't think of one. Tara Reid plays Gwen Pearson. She's a great actress, and I've really enjoyed the few movies I've seen her in - Dr. T and the Women, American Pie, The Big Lebowski, etc. To say much more would be to ruin the plot - so that's it - and as my final comment, DO NOT RENT THIS MOVIE if you are expecting a great piece of cinematic art!  "}{"Title":"It's Not That Terrible","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My God, just read the reviews in the national press and you'd think this was the worst movie ever made! Sure there were a lot of gross out bits and fairly stupid events, but lighten up everyone--it's a goofy film and not meant to change the world. Some of the writing was quite sharp and clever. The actors were having fun and not trying to win Academy Awards. Don't take things so seriously. That's what this film does easily. (Okay, I think it could have been a lot better.)  ) "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of 5","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Teen college movies don't get much dumber than this, but I have to admit I did enjoy this film to a certain degree. For everyone who doesn't know, Nation Lampoons is a stupid magazine for immature guys, much like their movies. But in the fateful year of 1978 the face of comedy was changed forever in the now classic Nation Lampoons Animal House. That one film has spawned more reincarnations than one can count, all of them being inferior to the original. So now, over 30 years later Nation Lampoons have decided to rip themselves off with Van Wilder. Van is a guy who has been going to the same school for seven years because he is having to much fun to leave. The film has every cliche in the book, the loveable hero in trouble, the sexy love interest, the jealous boyfriend trying to ruin the hero and here's a new one, a pitbull with extremly large testicles. Yes you've seen it all before about a million time, but you know what? Some of it is pretty damn funny, but there are to many misfires between the good jokes to make the film memorable after the credits role. The film has trouble deciding whether to be a stupid parody like Nation Lampoon's Last Resort or a heartfelt teen comedy like 10 Things I Hate About You. It suceeds at neither. The film starts out so slapstick that when it takes a more serious side in the final act we really don't care about any of the characters. Ryan Renolds, who most people will know from the TV show Two Guys, a Girl and a PIzza Place has plenty of charm, just to bad most of it is going to waste here and Tara Reid is pretty boring also. Pre-pubesent teens take note, there is enough sex, fart jokes and projectile vomit to make you giggle the night away and takes the term gross-out comedy to all new lows as Van Wilder sends doughnuts filled with god seman to a phrat house for a little snack, enjoy.  "},{"Title":"van wilder was awesome","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am proud to say, that the older I get, the MORE I seem to enjoy these low-brow comedies of teen/college antics.  No, my sense of humor does not reflect my education level, nor does my movie collection speak very highly of me as an intellectual--------------but who cares what my family thinks?  This one was a HUGE laugh!  Just a light hearted, silly movie.  My favorite genre............ "},{"Title":"sickly funny","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very crude and disgusting.  I will never be able to look at a dog or pastries in the same way again.  But if you have a sick sense of humor like me, you will find the movie hilarious.  Ryan Reynolds does a fantastic job in the film.  He is an up and coming comedic actor.  Tara Reid still looks anorexic but she does a good job as well.  So if you have a crude and sick sense of humor like me, I suggest you see this flick.  "},{"Title":"Switch off your brain and have a good laugh!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Uhh I like teen/highschool-comedy! Van Wilder is funny, obscene and everything what a good comedy has to be. O.k. don't look at the acting, the script or don't wait for any inovation. Just get some popcorn and invite a couple o' friends! ;) "},{"Title":"Everything you have come to expect from National Lampoon's, and more.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At first glance this may seem like 'just another teen movie' but where others fail, this one exceeds. Probably one of the better comidies to come out of Hollywood lately, and one of my favorites overall. It is the story of a young man who can't seem to find his calling in life so he refuses to begin it. Many have attempted to compare this movie to 'Animal House' but then, how can anything compare to 'Animal House?' If your looking for one of the better comidies on the New Release wall of your local video store, Van Wilder is worth a look. Filled with a million laughs and even more memorable quotes. Check this one out, it's not to be missed. Also, it is 'Unrated' for a reason, not for the young young audences, and if you can, get the DVD its loaded with tons of extras.    "},{"Title":"Another Teen Movie!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's exactly like one of those really cheesy teen movies. It has some disgusting scenes and the humor in it was really funny. Tara Reid did a well performance as well as Ryan Reynolds and Teck 'Money' Holmes also made a good length performance throughtout the film. It was an 'ok' movie all in all, but it just to me was like an American Pie Movie it was dumb, but funny in a way. I would watch it again but the pastry scene is just disturbing. Check it out though you'll know what I mean! "},{"Title":"Not Animal House but still lots of fun.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is a pretty funny movie about a college student who has been in the college for 7 years. Before I saw the movie, I thought it would be yet another teen flick with disgusting humor and pointless storylines. The basic idea of the story was good and the acting wasnt that bad either. I recommend this film to people who likes comedy and just wants to see a movie with an easy to understand plot. 7/10 . "},{"Title":"Teen Movie at it's best!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i'm speechless about this movie, it soooo rocked my world.. it's fun, it's romantic, it has every god damnit aspect a teen movie should have.i want to recommend this too all teen movie lovers (mostly teens i guess ) ) but it's worth the whole time, i wish it would have lasted much longer..- ksNOT TO MENTION HOW BEAUTIFUL TARA REID IS! "},{"Title":"Holy Magoli, lol!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to the cinemas intending to watch anything on show, and Van Wilder was the only one that had free tickets. Therefore expectations were somewhat low, but progressively this film grew much at home.It has to be funnier than Scay Movie in my view, I especially liked the indian character who acted very properly with the main actor.The movie will esp. be for colege or university students, who can relate to it and thus will find it being one of the funniest movies ever!Just loved it. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Pretty original...","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, when I saw this movie I couldn't help myself thinking of all the other Uptime movies like American Pie, Road trip etc. But still, it's a film filled with gradually funny moments, and I would recommend it! Good laugh =)  "},{"Title":"One Awesome movie","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I would highly recommend you see this movie if you havent already seen it.  There is one really gross part but over all it was probably the funniest movie I have ever seen.  National Lampoon needs to come out with a Part 2 of this movie or another movie because their movies are awesome. "},{"Title":"I Loved this Movie.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so fun. If you love movies like American Pie (1 & 2) and Roadtrip. So if your are to does kind of movies, this one is a must see. It's has all a great highschool/college movie should have, the hero, the villain, practical jokes, beer, sex and all the nice girls (Tara Reid)!!!  "},{"Title":"Critics don't know anything","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great.  It had hot chicks, funny lines, an Indian guy who loves women more than the Taj Mahal.  Tara Reid looked incredibly hot in this.  If you want to see a college movie see Van Wilder I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"My 10 cents on Van Wilder","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder, what can I say about this movie, well for starters you HAVE TO see it. Van Wilder is awesome, National Lampoon have done it again, by far the funniest movie in a long time, Ryan Reynolds (Van Wilder) stands out in an almost solo performance, I say almost becourse let's not forget the always cute and gorgeous Tara Reid (Gwen Pearson ), these 2 has a seldom seen onscreen chemistry. The movie itself is filled with one BIG laugh after the other and you'll have to be without any humour whatsoever to not find this movie F U N N Y with all capital letters. Does Van Wilder get the girl in the end, I won't give that away, you'll just have to watch and find out for yourself. To close I have to say, if your gonna see only one comedy this year, make it Van Wilder, I promise you won't be dissapointed... "},{"Title":"Parker Lewis is alive","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After the Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place sitcom I had been waiting for a comedy with Ryan Reynolds in the lead. Van Wilder is a movie length episode of Parker Lewis Can't Lose mixed with inspiration from movies such as American Pie and Revenge of the Nerds.Van (Ryan Reynolds) is still in college after 7 years but now his rich father has had enough so Van has to find other ways of paying for college. Van's sidekicks; a black dude with blond hair and a stuttering exchange student from India with the life long dream to get some real american 'punani' does an okay job compared to other teen comedy sidekicks seen on the big screen. Gwen (Tara Reid) plays the girl Van wants but can't have and does a good job and as in American Pie she's really cute - even though Van doesn't have a 'special book'.Van Wilder is a funny movie with minor flaws, but who cares when you have a movie where the hero is as cool as Berg in Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place and Parker Lewis from Parker Lewis Can't Lose.I rate this as 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"If you liked American Pie then you'll love this hilarious comedy.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for Van Wilder, I was a little hesitant.  I mean they've made a ton of National Lampoon's movies and the only ones that were good featured Chevy Chase.  But since I got into the movie for free, I thought I'd see it anyways.  It turned out to be one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  I know Tara Reid can't act, but Ryan Reynolds did an amazing job of bringing this character to life.  It's definitely going to be on my To Buy List.  Go spend the few $ to see it.  You'll love it. Write that down. "},{"Title":"A solid college-aged comedy. Just don't compare it to Animal House.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Van Wilder on its first day in the theater, I thought for sure that this was a sure-fire hit.  I hadn't laughed so hard at a goofy movie since the first time I saw Tommy Boy.  Of course, it never turned out to be much of a hit, and reviews that I read chalked the film up as another abomination in the recent history of the National Lampoon's series (many of the more recent releases went straight to video.)First of all, this IS NOT a remake of Animal House. People expecting something of that nature will be sadly disappointed. This is not because Van Wilder is that much worse, the two films are very different college stories. Van owes more to a movie like PCU than anything else.As the title implies, the story is that of Van Wilder (Reynolds), a college student beginning the seventh year of his college tenure.  It's not that he's stupid, he has just found his niche in college and is comfortable there.  He is big man on campus and enjoys the view from the top. Tara Reid plays the part of Gwen, a campus newspaper reporter charged with writing a story on the enigmatic Wilder. Of course, a blind man could see the eventually romance between the two and the consequential rivalry between Wilder and Gwen's egomaniacal pre-med boyfriend Richard (Cosgrove).  Van's roommate Hutch (Teck Holmes of MTV Real World Fame) and his Indian assistant Taj (Kal Penn) round out the starring cast.This movie works on many levels for college students such as myself. There are familiar themes as well as the right amount of apathy towards authority, sprinkled with a little T&A. There is also gross-out comedy which I found to be the film's weak point, with the exception of one scene featuring eclairs that has to be seen to be believed. Perhaps some of the plot points are far-fetched, but no worse than Rodney Dangerfield's character receiving an all encompassing oral exam to graduate in Back to School.What really makes this film shine is the performance of Ryan Reynolds. I've never seen his TV show (Two Guys and a Girl and formerly a Pizza Place), but judging from this movie the kid is going to be a star. All he needs is that Dare to be great opportunity, to quote from the film.All in all, Van Wilder is entertaining if you watch it with the right mindset.  For those staunchy critics who want to defend Animal House to the death, this movie may have sucked. But to me it was a solid comedy and will make you laugh.Write that down. "},{"Title":"Good, yet stupid","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder follows the National Lampoon tradition of having a college flick where everybody guzzels beer and has sex. It actually follows Ryan Reynolds as Van Wilder, a legend at his college whose father cut him off from getting any money to go to college. It is up to him to have some crazy parties and get some money. Ryan Reynolds is an entertaining Van Wilder and I thought he was good. Tara Reid is a pretty good Gwen and her character wasn't too bad. The other actors and actresses who play the characters weren't that bad and, actually, there presence were likable. The only big problem this movie has is it's stupidity. Some of the jokes were just completely not funny and just won't let a laugh break through. The plot isn't that good the way it's brought out. It could be a lot better. The other problem is that it has nothing to do with National Lampoon's. The only connection is the guy who played Otter from Animal House plays Van Wilder's father, Vance Wilder. That's not even a connection.Overall this would've been a good time for Jason Voorhees to kill these horny kids. Rating 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny. Gross, but funny.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at a sneak preview, and I, along with everyone in the theater, was almost in tears with laughter throughout the entire film. Sure, it uses a lot of gross-out situations to achieve its laughs, but it also has some witty writing and funny characters.  Ryan Reynolds is perfectly cast as Van, a college student going on his seventh years, and Tera Reid is as hot as ever as the college newspaper reporter assigned to do a story on Van.  The only thing i disliked about the film was Tera Reid's boyfriend and also the bad guy.  He got more and more annoying as the film went on, but all in all, the film is worth checking out.  "}{"Title":"Ferris Bueller the (R rated cut)","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is another Gross out film, but with MORE heart than others,Van Wilder has heart, and helps alot of people! however ,all of the fart and sex jokes are here in truckloads, but the film plays like an R-rated Ferris Bueller 2... worth seeing...if you have heart, and like low brow humor.this one is for you! "},{"Title":"Just Terrific","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw an advanced screening of this movie a couple of months ago and couldn't wait for it to hit DVD so I could buy it.  National Lampoon is pretty hit and miss (the Vacation series notwithstanding) but this one comes through big.  Yet another great college comedy about a guy who has spent 7 years in college doing it all.  His wealthy, yet unattentive, father finds out he's still paying for Van's tuition and tells him he's pulling his funding of Van's joyride.  Van then uses every ability and talent he has to get money to get through school, while pursuing Tara Reid, a school reporter who's pursuing Van, the most elusive student on campus, for the one interview nobody's ever been able to get.  Outlandish, crude, side-splitting humor.  Especially the dog and the rolls (you know if you've seen it).  "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so funny. If you liked Road Trip or the American Pies you will love this movie. And Tara Reid plays a great role...doesnt hurt thats she beautiful either. I cant wait for it to come out on DVD I'll be there that Tuesday to buy it! "},{"Title":"Fun & Enjoyable,but if you're looking for original you've come to the wrong place.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  College partying and gross-out humor? Wow,I've never heard of that before.But in spite of that,this is a fun and funny little movie that's enjoyable.There's just alot that's been ripped off from other comedies and nothing really mind-blowing about it.This movie would for sure fail without it's super cool and suave lead, Van Wilder,aka Ryan Reynolds.He IS this movie and he does a very good job with it.Also Tara Reid,as always,is super-duper hot and quite nice to have in this flick.3 1/2 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Movie sums up real university life.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie should be familiar to all uni students who live on campus. The dirty and disgusting things that we get up to (the creamed rolls), the mates, the parties, and other funny stuff really made me relate to the movie. This movie couldn't of touched more on this reality of uni that goes on everyday.Uni Student QLD Australia "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has you at the edge of your seat wondering what new and outrageous will come next in the movie.  There were so many pieces in the movie that were out-of-this-world funny that the audience were stuck laughing and even tearing.  This movie was not as hyped up as American Pie was, but I think it had as much or even the same caliber as AP did.  It was one movie that actually made me feel all warm inside after leaving the theater.  It was a great movie.  If you haven't seen it, go see it.  I can't wait till it comes out on DVD so I can add it to my comedy collection. "},{"Title":"Funny in a nasty way","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder Part Liason tries a bit too hard to make the audience laugh. It's main laugh lines were the nasty gross-out scenes like the ones with the dog semen cream buns,  or the girl with the numerous T-shirts about male body parts.It's similar American Pie,  and it also stars Tara Reid.  It centers around a guy named Van Wilder.  His dad quits paying his tuition because he has failed to graduate in seven years.  So he raises money with topless tuitions,  naked mile runs and as a party director,  hence the title. That's when he meets Gwen and falls for her.Overall,  when you see it,  you have to keep in mind it's a teenage comedy that only caters for nastiness rather than any sensibility. It's definitely not in the tradition of the other National Lampoon movies. "},{"Title":"Gross but still funny","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great. It tended to get pretty gross in some scenes, but it was funny for the majority of the time. The plot was really meaningful and great, and I really liked the moral of the story. Even though everyone might think oh that's such an obvious moral and it doesn't even apply to me, when in reality it applies to everyone, except it might be to a different extreme. This movie really helped me realize that. I think that's why i liked it so much. The message behind the movie really touches everyone, and there's more than one so if you don't like movies with obvious points just look for the more in depth meanings! "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of 80's flicks like Meatballs, Ferris Bueller, and Revenge of the Nerds","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I watched it together. We both laughed a lot and were equally grossed out. If you've seen American Pie 1 or 2, remember the scenes at the parties at the beginning of each movie where Stifler is trying to convince a girl to... well... you know. In both movies, something really gross happens that makes many viewers gag. In Van Wilder, there are about five scenes that make you want to gag like the American Pie scenes, except ten times worse! I actually shut my eyes and plugged my ears during one scene because it was so disgusting. Despite this, I thought the movie was very funny. I will see it again, but probably not until it's on video. "},{"Title":"Sick But Hilarious Movie","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was downright hilarious.  There are so many aspects of the film that were comedic, but the writers did a good job in making even the simple things seem funny.  The film was also pretty graphic, but of course the graphic parts were made into comedic moments.  Just remember, stay away from the bulldog doughnuts! "}{"Title":"One of those movies that if more funny to talk about then see!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The previews show a good deal of the funny parts. The overall writing and events are not great. However Ryan Reynolds does a great job. He really is quite funny and I look forward to his next movie. However in this movie the funniest character is Taj, Van's personal assistant, he made me laugh my butt off the whole time. The movie is worth a matinee viewing. "},{"Title":"It's a comedy riot....well...almost...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was actually pretty funny, even though a few things were hard to get past while watching it. The flow of the story is disrupted by the romantic aspect of Van Wilder (Reynolds) and Gwen (Reid) comes into play. But I suppose the movie had to have SOME kind of plot, however small it was. I am not really a good judge on acting, but in this one case, I think I can safely say that Reid failed to deliver. I just didn't believe her as an ambitious reporter (Almost to the extent of Denise Richards as a Nuclear Physicist in that Bond movie). Fortunately, she's very easy on the eyes, but I suppose that's why she was casted in the first place.The movie's truly funny scenes are when the Indian stereotype assistant (well played by Penn) is talking about sex. Listening to his schpiel about why he wants to be Wilder's assistant is well worth the price of admission. Something about hearing an Indian talking about having sex (in very vulgar slang, mind you) is just hilarious. Wilder does a good job of the good hearted playboy-party animal. He has that Jim Carrey from Ace Ventura goofiness about him throughout the movie. There are a lot funny scenes and subtle lines that make the movie worthwhile. Some cool cameos by 80's movie icons (Richard Vernon from The Breakfast Club, Booger from Revenge of the Nerds, and Otter from Animal House) don't hurt either. This is one of those movies where you try not to concentrate on the bad acting, or how a dog can have huevos that big (you have to see the movie to understand what I mean), or even how it's possible to pass 6 Final Exams in 7 days studying, without ever going to class. In the end, Van Wilder is one of the funnier movies you'll see this year, even though it stoops to some really low levels to get laughs. "},{"Title":"A Great movie!!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Van Wilder was an overall great movie.  At points the movie was very predictable, but it was HILARIOUS!  This movie is definitely for the younger, more desensitized viewers. If you didn't like American Pie, Scary Movie, or Not Another Teen Movie, then save your money and stay at home. Why go to see a movie that could offend you! I think that the director made an excellent decision choosing Ryan Reynolds to play Van Wilder. Not only is he super funny, but he is super HOT TOO! Don't worry guys, there are good looking girls in the movie too.  However, I do agree with some of the other critics.  Tara Reid was WAY to over dramatic! ESPECIALLY for a comedy! In fact, the entire love connection between Van and Gwen took away from the movie's overall FUNNY impact on the audience. I think they could have found a way for the love scenes to be LESS intense and cheesy. Other than those few MINOR downfalls, Van Wilder was an AWESOME movie. I would definitely see it again. "},{"Title":"A very funny gross out comedy","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is about a guy who has been in college for seven years and he dosen't wont to leave. But when his father tells him to come home van says no so hes dad stops paying his tuition. so now Van has to throw party's to make money for his tuition. National lampoons have still got it after all these years if you liked Animal house you will love this movie i give it 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"If you're expecting what you should be, it's just fine...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let's be honest...  National Lampoon is not known for making high-brow satire or drama.  They make irreverent, zany, sometimes great (q.v. Christmas Vacation) comedy.  As long as you're not looking for anything more than a simple film you can laugh at and joke about the next time you're in a bakery, you shouldn't have a problem.The plot is a fairly straightforward one, which you've probably gleaned from the previews and commercials.  Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is the big man on campus (he even has a sex-starved Indian exchange student for a personal assistant).  Everyone loves him except (surprise) the current boyfriend of the girl he wants to be with (Tara Reid).  He struggles to earn money for his tuition after being cut off by his father in his seventh year at school, all the while learning about life and love and how to pull disgustingly humiliating pranks on annoying frat boys whose girlfriends you want to steal.If you like zany comedies, you shouldn't be disappointed with Van Wilder. It's almost worth it just to see Ryan Reynolds trying so hard to be Chevy Chase.  "},{"Title":"A must see!!!!!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder is absolutely hysterical!  I loved it and would go back to the movies to see it again.  I am definitely going to buy it on DVD.  A definite laugh out loud movie.Definitely go see it!!!! "},{"Title":"the same funny garbage","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie is about the as every other recent comedy... boring, and not funny. you have to want to laugh to enjoy this movie.. and who enjoys wanting to laugh? exactly.. this movie did have one moment though.. when tek tried to light the indian guys cock pump.. a glimmer of genius.. otherwise, this movie was lame & predictable.. i really expected more.. i guess i should begin expecting crap, maybe then my expectations would be met.. dont pay to watch this movie, wait for a friend to rent it and then go to his place, eat his pizza, fart on his couch, and steal a pair his girlfriends underwear... ooh ya damn right.. "},{"Title":"Freggin' Hilarious!!!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh man that was the funniest movie I have ever seen.  The plot was at some times weak and the premise a little predictable or cliche but other than that it was worth my 6 bucks to go see it.  I was f***ing laughing my ass off, especially the part with the dog and the donuts.  Ryan Reynolds, who is not to mention a Canuck, made it a really good movie as his whit and character upped the level of halarity.  If you can see this movie do so. Now when's Van wilder 2 coming out??? "},{"Title":"Intolerable Trash","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw only ten minutes of this movie. It opens with Van Wilder, the main character, giving a speech at the commencement ceremonies. I thought it was for college, because everybody in cap and gown looks to be in their twenties. I was shocked when they made it clear that it was a high school graduation. As the popular class president continues speaking, the next speaker, a female valedictorian, crawls under the podium and proceeds to give Van Wilder oral sex as he delivers his speech. This was very demeaning to women and was extremely vulgar. Then, we see that Van Wilder's father is a tycoon, he gets whatever he wants, and the most gorgeous supermodel-type girls go crazy over him. This doesn't make sense, because the smirky Van Wilder doesn't seem to possess any special looks or charm that would make him desirable to women. At this point, I turned it off and, judging by the other comments; including the doggie/eclair scene, I'm very glad I did. "},{"Title":"Not Funny.  Avoid This","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only National Lampoon movie that I loved was the original Vacation film. It is certainly not this flick! Ryan Reynolds stars as a party animal who has attended college for seven years doing nothing more than milking the system by organizing wild parties, excessive drinking, and having sex. The substance and content of this film could fit on a postage stamp. Very few of the jokes are funny, unless you enjoy the crudest, raunchiest humor imaginable. (Such as having a severe bathroom attack during an exam.) But this content has only been done 10001 times before.I did move my original thought of giving this film one star to three. In the later stages of the movie, Ryan's character tries to give the film a mild serious tone when he gives his speech to the review board about why he should be allowed to stay in school after his father cuts off his funding. But this moment is the only bright spot in the film. There is no identity for Ryan's character to show any serious side to him. By the time you see him taking any exams, the clips come and go so fast that you wish the movie would end. The late Paul Gleason, who so brilliantly played the disciplinarian Dick Vernon in The Breakfast Club, is SHAMEFULLY cast as an Economics professor who supposedly has confidence in Van, but we don't see that until the very end. Van doesn't even do all that much to make any professor care. I hope Mr. Gleason was well paid for this junk.The supporting roles are so superficial, that they take on the life of a department store mannequin. Adults are presented as two-dimensional nincompoops where the kid and his girlfriend succeed because, Ohhh They are so cute/cool! NOT! If your about 14 or under, you might like this crap. The R-rating, because of the sexual innuendo, draws under-age kids to movies like this. But for the rest of us, your time and money is better spent elsewhere. "}{"Title":"Awful, but silly","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In watching VAN WILDER again, I marvel at how Ryan Reynolds ever survived this stinker to go on to a real film career. VAN WILDER is a retread of PCU which in turn was a retread of ANIMAL HOUSE, but with less plot. Reynolds plays a cocky, charismatic college student in his seventh year as an undergrad. The only catch is, Mr. Wilder really isn't all that charismatic, in fact he's rather effeminate acting, so you just have to go with the flow when all his fellow students treat him like he can walk on water. A couple of silly moments can't save this. And Tara Reid as a clueless fellow student assigned to do an expose on this supposed BMOC almost single-handedly deep sixes the film. Watch PCU instead. Or ANIMAL HOUSE. "},{"Title":"'This is Naomi, her name is I MOAN spelled backward.'","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Van Wilder' is not a good movie. I didn't expect it to be. However, for anyone who can put their 'juvenile' hat on for barely 90 minutes, it is well-written and well-acted enough to give some genuine laughs. Familiar story, dad gets fed up with paying for slacker son's college, after 7 years, so son has to find innovative ways to support his perpetual student lifestyle. Predictably a cute girl muddies the waters and we, the audience, see how it gets resolved. Most over the age of 21 or so will NOT like this movie. Tara Reid, as cute as she is, has only one role in her range, playing Tara Reid.  I hope she is making good investments because she is destined for a very short career.SPOILERS follow, for my own recollection, stop reading, OK??When dad cuts Van off, he finds creative ways to raise money. 'Topless Tutors' works, but has a short run. A school news article about his skill at throwing parties gets him much business. Meanwhile the reporter (Tara) is taking interest in Van, at the same time losing interest in her nerdy and devious medical student boyfriend. There is a pet bulldog with gigantic testicles, and the 'pressure' gets relieved into pastries delivered to the 'D.I.K.' frat boys. There is the colon cleanser put into the protein shake right before nerdy boyfriend takes final medical exam. There is the expulsion of Van, for allowing small children to drink at his party, but he requests the ultimate punishment, forced to graduate by taking tests for the 18 credits he lacks. He does, and he does! Final party, dad comes and hugs son, 'Best investment I ever made.' A bit sappy, for an overall irreverent movie. "},{"Title":"Walt Becker must reconsult his dictionary for the word 'comedy'","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Van Wilder (2002) Ryan Reynolds, Tara Reid, Kal Penn, Tim Matheson, Kim Smith, Daniel Cosgrove, Deon Richmond, Paul Gleason, Tom Everett Scott, Chris Owen, D Walt Becker. Reynolds plays the title character, a smooth on-campus party-animal-this being his seventh year in college-who never wants to graduate; Reid is the hot and sensible journalist writing a story on Van. Plotless, gross-out comedy fails the NL franchise by recycling old ideas from ANIMAL HOUSE and stuffing in new gags . . . this may very well be the first movie in its kind or movie for that matter to use the insertion of canine semen into crème-filled pastries as a bit of `laughter', or a bit of vomit. Running Time 93 minutes and rated R for strong sexual content, nudity, gross humor, language, and drug use. * 1/2      "},{"Title":"Another attempt at gross out college humor...","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  and for the most part it didn't work.  It seemed like a lame attempt at a movie like American Pie, but it is no where near as good.  None of the actors stand out.  Tara Reid is the most famous actor in this, but her character is so lame on film.  I guess the funniest person was her obnioxious boyfriend. He had the best scene when he drinks a glass of colon blow. Then, he has to take a test and meet with Northwestern allum.  He makes it out of  the test, but when he runs into the allum doctors, he can't hold it any more and drops trou over a garbage can.This movie also rips off Ferris Beuhler because as in FB, Van Wilder is the most popular student and everyone looks to him for advice and they are always willing to do what he says.This movie also has Tech from the Real World. He does some gross stuff with a dog. The pastries were really gross.FINAL VERIDCT Not original and done much better before. I don't recommend it. "},{"Title":"Animal House it ain't","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In spite of what the hype said, the only similarity between Van Wilder and Animal House is a bit part by Matheson. VW tells of a Robin Hoodish sort of naughty good guy and career college student, Wilder (Reynolds), who plays dirty tricks on frat rats while supporting the geeks and athletes with his underground networking clout. An ordinary flick with nothing much going for it, VW dwells too much on potty and crotch humor while neglecting the spicy/sexy stuff and spinning its flimsy romantic angle. Little more than a diversion for college age males and like minded viewers. (C-) "},{"Title":"Alone in the Theater","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Last April I was in New York City, I saw at the local theater (AMC or Lowe on 34th/8th Ave.) the ad for the movie it was , I think the 2nd week the film was playing I bought a ticket for that evening for the 1030Pm show. when i came back that night to see the movie I saw it alone, thats right, I was the only person in the theater.I think there's nothing to add to this fact.I find the movie far from expected if you think about animal house as the comparative point of view. a total lost of time.my rating 2 of 10 "},{"Title":"A waste of Van Time","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm really getting sick of all these teeny-blooper movies aboutgross sex jokes and fake college life. People who go to collegeand act like the kids in this movie are losers and have no cluewhat it's like to be a real person. If you really liked this moviechances are you  1. Have a poster of Chris Farley on your wall. 2.Learned to play guitar by buying the sheet music to Nevermindand were really impressed when you were able to play Pollywant's a cracker.  3. Have never sacrificed anything for our greatnation. 4. Drove your car into a pole on purpose. 5. Think that DVDporn is going to be really cool... Ok, I could go on and on, but thepoint is that this movie is just plain bad. The only real benefit tothis flick is the higher-than-heck babe factor.  Overall I would givethis movie a 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Do yourself a favor. Go rent all the movies from the 80's. They are much better, and not with the gross out American Pie style. Not worth seeing. All the gags have been recycled. All the older actors and actresses have been recycled. Tara Reid is terrible at best. Van Wilder himself, has no comedic talent. More of his lines should have been funnier, but he couldn't deliver them at all. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is, far and away, the worst movie I have ever seen, and I have seen all of Steven Segal's films. To the surprise of no one, the acting is atrocious. While he is a veteran of The Real World, Teck cannot act, along with Ryan Reynolds, who has experienced difficulty in acting his way out of a paper bag. Rehashing (no pun intended) the same plot line from Animal House and, more recently, PCU, Van Wilder will as easily forgettable as Jack Frost 2 The Revenge of the Mutant Killer Snowman. "},{"Title":"hmmmmmm","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I finally saw this movie, almost saw it in a theater when i came out, good thing I didn't it wasn't worth the $7, but worth a $2 rental. Ryan Reynolds, I am not a big fan of, but does a subpar job as Van the main character. If you like alot of screwball goofy humor like National Lampoon puts out watch this it actually has some funny stuff in it. I advise you to check any pastry you eat after watching this, watch this and you will know why. Tara Reid's acting I could care less for, I would have chosen Jack Black as Van Wilder, but Ryan Reynolds (aka Berg from Two guys and a girl pizza place or not, Bran from the Goonies)will do, its worth a rent if you're bored and need a few laughs. "}{"Title":"A Damn Good Time","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I want to dismiss all the ads and quotes from critics stating that this film has restored National Lampoon to its lost glory.  NL never had glory, just one moderately funny, severely overrated college flick. That said, VAN WILDER is the ANIMAL HOUSE for the new generation. It's always a pleasure to start a movie expecting one thing and being rewarded in every way.  I expected VAN WILDER to be disgusting, oversexed, and full of hormone-charged, none-too-bright teenagers drinking, smoking, screwing and getting high.  That's what I got.  But to tell the truth, I enjoyed the hell out of VAN WILDER.  Why?  I don't know.  But I think it has a lot to do with Ryan Reynolds. Apparently, he'sfrom the ABC sitcom TWO GUYS AND A GIRL, but I wouldn't know because I've never seen it, and I can't really imagine Reynolds in any other role than Van Wilder.  He has a great, easy charm about him.  As soon as you see him, you like him and want to be him.  So, the filmmakers succeeded in that way.I have complaints, though.  The foundation of the alleged plot is so shaky you'd think it was being held up by Jello shooters.  I get the distinct feeling that the MPAA cut a great deal from the final version to make it R-rated, because the film seems like the editors attacked it with a carving knife.  I was also upset by the horrible frat-boy archnemesis.  He made my skin crawl, he was so annoying.  In addition, the pastry scene reminded me too much of that scene in TOMCATS where David Ogden Stiers ate Jake Busey's cancerous testicle.  There's bad taste, and then there's dog-masterbatingly, cum-guzzlingly bad taste.  Draw a line, fellas. However, I can't deny that when VAN WILDER ended, I was smiling.  It made me want to leave the sanctity of my dorm room and throw one bitching party. I guess that was the point all along. "},{"Title":"The ComeBack of National Lampoon.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a great flick.  I was amazed to see that the rating was at 5.7 when I voted.  It was a laid back flick, that was funny, but not offensive.  I thought that the movie was hilarious, and I hope National Lampoon keeps making kick ass movies like that "},{"Title":"Swallow or Spit","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" During his seventh year at Coolidge college, handsome Ryan Reynolds (as Van Wilder) gets his tuition cut off by father Tim Matheson (as Van Wilder Sr.), an embarrassed Animal House (1978) alumni. When Mr. Matheson finds his son wearing a women's negligee at an underwear swap party, he fears Reynolds might be gay; obviously, Matheson doesn't catch on very fast anymore. However, Mr. Reynolds is enterprising young man; he uses his supposedly large genitalia to stay in school...Arousing blonde reporter Tara Reid (as Gwen Pearson) does a story on Reynolds. He turns from promiscuous and partying to thinking Ms. Reid might be that special someone. For some reason, Reid's premature ejaculating boyfriend Daniel Cosgrove (as Richard Bagg) maintains a hold on Reid. For what it's worth, Mr. Cosgrove actually performs his role well. Van Wilder delivers lots of fart and balls humor, some beer and breasts, a few gay jokes... all climaxing in a huge dump.** Van Wilder (4/4/02) Walt Becker ~ Ryan Reynolds, Tara Reid, Daniel Cosgrove, Tim Matheson "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, it's a B-movie, saved mostly by some great one-liners and Reynolds' sly delivery.  If that's all you're looking for, this movie is just fine.Otherwise, there was really nothing unique about the movie.  It was horribly predictable and had some really disgusting moments that sent me out of the room gagging.  But it also made me laugh, and grin like an idiot, and then cackle some more.The movie also could've been better with some editing, but I'm not asking for that time of my life back, so take it as you will.So, basically, you might want to watch it if you're bored one day.But really, rent Real Genius or Animal House first. "},{"Title":"Somewhere Between PCU and Sorority Boys","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny, but not that funny.  A PC or tamer version of Sorority Boys, and more vulgar then PCU.  I went to college, and the PC people don't like college party movies or those type of parties any ways (one PCer told me those parties where oppressive, but that's besides the point) so let's say it's tamer than Sorority Boys.  The lead character is too wimpy, and the director misses the feeling of college life; where Sorority Boys achieves this.  There is a message, and moral in this film that kills the story. Reid does not look that good; I wonder how she gets such good roles.  What works is the gags; sick, funny, and bizarre.  The bad people play the snob role well, and deserve what hatred they conjure up.  This movie is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Unwatchable Dumb Crap","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had very poor expectations for this movie and even then VAN WILDER managed to live down to them . The story starts with professional student ( I think Americans call them  Eternal students  ? ) Van Wilder and stoner buddy interviewing some potential room mates . We see a female called Terry and you'll notice I spelt it  Terry  and not the female  Terri  because you'll get the obvious joke without having to watch the movie ( Please don't thank me ) , some camp male cheerleader etc and a cameo from Erik Estrada . Yes that Erik Estrada the star of CHIPS . When I say a cameo from EE is the highlight of the movie you'll understand just how poor a movie this is VAN WILDER is one of those gross out comedies that seems to be a cross between American Pie and FREDDIE GOT FINGERED . All the jokes seem to revolve around biological functions and swear words , but that's maybe not its worst point because what really ruins the movie and makes it totally unwatchable is the way the cast perform their roles . They really do mug for the camera and the best description is  Jim Carrey on speed . That's how bad the comedy acting is so consider yourself warned "},{"Title":"Van Wilder","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I spotted this (apparently National Lampoon series continuing) teen movie because of the one or two good names in the cast, but also because it had such a low rating, one star out of five, I was intrigued to know why, from director Walt Becker (Wild Hogs). Basically Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is the most popular student in Coolidge College, and has been for the last seven years, as he puts on the highly successful parties and fund-raisers, but his father Vance Sr. (National Lampoon's Animal House's Tim Matheson) is concerned for his eduction. Van is a little thrown back by his father stopping his tuition fee, meaning he has to find his own ways to make money, but the party throwing continues, and he is met by sexy student Gwen Pearson (American Pie's Tara Reid) who is writing a paper on him and his antics. As she can't get very close to Van himself, she asks all the questions to people he knows in the college, including new Indian foreign exchange student assistant Taj Mahal Badalandabad (Harold & Kumar's Kal Penn), and this only makes him mad. Van does however find an attraction towards Gwen, and he is trying his flirting techniques to score with him, but she already has a boyfriend, snobby and rude president of the student union and the leader of a fraternity, Richard Bagg (Daniel Cosgrove). Val is put under much more pressure when his medical school finals are coming up, and he has to study hard to get a good average grade to graduate and leave college on a high. In the end, Gwen realises what her boyfriend Richard is doing to Van, and his infidelity, so she get her revenge filling his protein shake with a powerful laxative, Van does pass his final paper, and he and she celebrate graduation and embrace. Also starring Teck Holmes as Hutch, Deon Richmond as Mini Cochran and Alex Burns as Gordon. The cast, even though with some good names, don't really add anything, the scripting is one of the worst I have ever seen, and the comedy full of outrageously gross moments is disgusting and unfunny, especially ageist snogging of a student, large dog genitals, and dog semen filled pastries, only the laxative scene made me giggle for the fart noises, otherwise it is an absolutely awful comedy. Poor! "},{"Title":"No brain activity allowed ...","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The recipe is pretty much known by now, I think. You take a college somewhere at a sunny location and you add a few guys whose life only turns about partying and drinking beer. Mix this with loads of hot babes who look their best in bikini's and you've got yourself a typical nowadays comedy. Don't forget to include the typical tasteless and completely cliché side-characters like the stereotype teachers, the foreign exchange students, the nerds and the brainiacs and the busty cheerleaders with and overload of hormones. If you serve all this with a good amount ( in this case even an extreme amount ) of fart-jokes and you've got Van Wilder...It's the same old stuff we've all seen multiple times before but for some unknown reason we still watch it. Why do we watch it - and even enjoy it up till a certain level - is one of the great mysteries of life. Maybe because it reminds us of our own magical years in college ( or maybe because you'd like to dream it was like this ) or maybe we don't have to search for reasons at all and just convince that we like to stare at the lovely Tara Reid, dressed in a tight top. Like usual with this sort of films,  the widely stretched jokes aren't funny at all and far from original but the little spoofs or jokes that are there to detect during the whole movie can put a smile on your face from time to time. Overall, you won't miss out on anything if you skip this one but there are far more worse ways to spend 90 minutes of your life. "}]