[{"Title":"Beautiful, Unprecedented","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"62 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and went to bed without words. After having a chance to sleep on it, it is now starting to sink in how truly amazing this movie was. You will be first blown away by the fact that this movie even exists. It is truly unprecedented in every sense of the word. I don't remember seeing anything like it, since maybe Nanook of the North, which would be a stretch.  Unlike Nanook, this movie is shot from the Inuit perspective, the characters are not looked upon as anthropological specimens. They are people living in a fragile existence, where any wrong move could mean sure death.The actors are astonishing, and it must have been so terribly cold up there, that you know this was a labor of love for the production team. The scenery is astonishing. Almost everyone who participated in this production was full-blooded Inuit. It is a beautiful story based on an Inuit legend that exists on many different levels and subplots, etc. All told on the frozen tundra without ANY indication given about the timeframe, or even century, in which it was set.I am just astonished at the painstaking attention to historical detail. I have read many books on Inuit culture, and most everything I have read was visualized in this movie, the social structure, the power of the patriarch, the constant looming of starvation, the role of the hunter/husband, the insubordination of women (pre-arranged marriages), the obsession with taboo and curses, the fine art of building igloos and staying warm in -60 temps, and yet, through all the hardships, there was so much happiness. They even showed how the dogs were handled and treated, even down to the way they would slicken their sledge rails by spitting small amounts of water on them until a layer of slick frozen ice formed, which makes the sledges slide easier over the pack ice. The one thing that I thought of today was how the movie was TOTALLY absent of the white, European influence. Their knives were made from caribou horns; they had no metal knives or metal cookware, which indicates that the movie was purposely based on a time before the Inuit's first contact with white men.It has a slow start, it's only fault. You will be a bit confused at first, trying to understand the characters and what exactly is happening, but then it starts to really suck you in, you begin to love the protagonists, who are physically beautiful people, and then you will grow to hate the antagonists, who are mean and undesirable. Afterwards, you will realize that almost all of these people, cast and crew, were full-blooded Inuit. You will then want to immediately see it again and demand a documentary on the making of this film. You will want to know who these people are, what they do in their normal lives, because most of these actors are making their big screen debut. The end of the movie gives you a quick behind-the-scenes peek, but it serves as only a small appetizer to a bigger feast. Most importantly, your respect for their pride and perseverance of their culture will increase ten-fold  "},{"Title":"A remarkable film that dramatizes an Inuit legend with Inuit actors, in Inuktitut with English subtitles.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"43 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Perhaps the word that best describes this film is 'remarkable'.  It is remarkable that it was made at all, by an Inuit film company, remarkable that it was shot on location in the High Arctic in conditions of winter and summer, remarkable for its absolute authenticity, for its faithfulness both to its subject and to the Inuit culture, which transcends remarkable.I have been to the High Artic more than once.  I have sat in the great silence of the north on the late summer tundra when it turns purple and the winds begin to blow across the ground and make the cotton grass sing.  I have heard the snow squeak at thirty-five below zero, as it did in this film; filming in such conditions must have been a nightmare.  Metal does strange things at those temperatures; cameras freeze and film becomes brittle and breaks into pieces.  Actors get cold and those just standing around get colder.  There are no local power sources.  And everything must be flown in by transport plane, including everything needed for the film crew to live and eat.  There are no hotels and no restaurants, no pub of an evening and the daylight hours for filiming in February or March are very short.  And in the summer, there are the flies.The use of Inuktitut, which is still a living language, preserves that essential atmosphere of complete authenticity; the building of igloos, the darkness inside the communal dwelling with only seal oil lamps, the use of bone and driftwood and dried seaweed for tools and fuel are absolutely authentic.  And yet not once did I have the impression of watching a documentary.  These were real people, living real lives, using real tools, wearing real clothing, relying on the hunt, on luck and on each other for survival.The story is set a thousand years ago. It is a legend, but one easily sees that it was a real story, passed down through time in the oral tradition. As it plays itself out - in the slow pace of Inuit time, not the frantic, high-pressure pace of our everyday existence - the rules of survival become clear, family alliances, taboos, social practices. Where survival in a lethal environment is moment to moment, social rules broken have immediate consequences not only for individuals but for the whole community, which usually consisted of no more than a dozen or so related individuals.  Jealousy, murder, theft could not be tolerated.  The story must not, therefore, be judged by our standards.  The only way to see this film is with complete openness; not only must you let the characters tell you the events of their drama, you must let them show you why those events were so destructive and why their way of dealing with it was right for them.This is about survival in a way that someone living in a city with a supermarket down the street, medical care and central heating can probably never fully grasp. It is not for the small-minded, not for anyone who cannot see past his own prejudices or narrow moral concepts and it is not for the squeamish.  Survival is messy; it involves animal guts and blood and pain, it involves you in your own continued existence in a way that we can no longer experience in all our plenty and our ease.  This film is also about fierce love, blinding jealousy, hatred, courage and abiding patience - all things we share in our common humanity.  But the filmmakers did not present the characters as 'noble savages'. Life was about food, about having it or not having it, about hunting it, gathering it, bringing it home, preparing it, preserving it, eating it and then doing it all over again.  All the time.  The Inuit are in no way 'primitive' people, whatever that truly means; this is how they survived.  We couldn't do it - and perhaps that makes us the primitives.I was fascinated.  It takes a short while to become used to the unfamiliar, the setting, the names, the culture shock.  After that, it is compelling, and very, very real.  The events unfold tragically and inevitably in a distressingly familiar, a frighteningly human way.  And you care deeply about the characters, about what happens to them, about whether they win out - because it is made very clear that they have every chance of not surviving for any number of reasons.And it is gorgeous.  The Artic is immensely photogenic but the cinematography was up to the challenge.  The sounds are a whole new experience for those who have never been there - the wind, the squeak and crunch of the snow, the dogs, the singing, the drumming, the rattling of bones, the sounds of the ice.This film is an experience; if the Arctic has ever intrigued you, this must not be missed. "},{"Title":"The film makes the most of the immense snowy landscape&#133;","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It tells a legend from the two thousand years ago, about Atanarjuat, who incurs the jealous enmity of Oki when he marries Atuat&#133; Oki kills Atanarjuat's brother, but Atanarjuat escapes in a stunning sequence, running naked across the ice floes, outstripping his pursuers until, his feet torn and bloody, he is taken in by a friendly sorcerer&#133; The motion picture concedes nothing in the way of authenticity, with sequences that show in realistic detail the training of sled-dogs, cutting up animal carcasses or making an igloo&#133; But the convincing ethnographic elements only serve to intensify the compelling story and characters, which take on a truly epic dimension&#133; If the purpose of a national cinema is to represent the culture of the peoples it belongs to, then Atanarjuat achieves this victoriously, both the content of the film and the manner of its telling being wholly specific to Canada, yet in the process achieving a universal appeal&#133; "},{"Title":"A different language","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The biggest surprise about the for Inuit-produced feature is that you do not need to be politically correct to like it. It is, besides a few excusable flaws, just a great film.  It is extremely difficult to transfer stories from foreign cultures and oral traditions to the screen - the whole visual language of the media is loaded with subtle assumptions on how stories hold together and characters should act; and these assumptions mostly belong to Western-modern culture. I think this films great achievement is to avoid much of it. One example It's not just due to the villainous character of some persons that they behave badly - the conflicts are not just conflicts between individuals. It's rather the entire community that is ill, due to spirit possession.The film is told in a somewhat different visual language, and this is what makes it so convincing; this is also what makes it difficult to understand at times (particularly in the beginning), but this is the price to pay - it is rather surprising how comprehensible it gets later. The film as a whole is really exciting and touching. It's pace is slow (and I like slow-paced movies). It's solutions for particular scenes are striking - the appearance of the bad spirit in the end is eerie, and the effect is just done by the camera position. On the other hand, there is a sort a documentary immediacy to everything, as if the camera just happened to be in the right spot when the story unfolded (I liked the burping and spitting a lot).There are, of course, points that don't work out well The music is the usual One-World-Tribal-kitsch-mud, with didgeridoos and Tuvan throat-singing, as if every primitive culture was just the same (an idea originating from 18th century Europe and strangely enough professed by many tribal activists today). But, well, it's pretty discrete... "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The atmosphere, the culture, the legend brought to life, the score, the people,  it was magical realism done right.  I read a lot of insulting reader comments on this film, and I am so glad I went to see it anyway. It was long, but it was in no way slow.  I was riveted.True, it did have a documentary feel... but I like documentaries... you could think of it as a documentary on Inuit legends and story telling as seen by the story tellers and their listeners.  The effect was to allow the audience to share the feelings of persons in an alien culture.The score was eclectic, effectively changing from Inuit chants to Gyuto Monk chants, and then to eerie Bulgarian choral music, and back to Inuit. Again, the effect was to blur cultural boundaries and move the viewer away from the familiar and into the Inuit.If there was one small fault, the subtitles were done in white, which did not always show up against the landscape.  Yellow might have been a better choice.I suspect that if you are a fan of Jim Jarmusch's Dead Man (as I am) then you will be one of this film as well. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a fantastic film made by Inuit actors with a will.  Unbelievable scenes with wonderful photography and chilling (no pun intended) moments.  The tale may be a bit hard to get into as the entire perspective is given from the Inuit point of view from the get-go.  Many Western audiences will just have to go along with a great leap of faith.  There is much that serious film critics can frown at as many of the scenes are a bit jerky in transition but the heart of the story and they way it unfolds in Inuit fashion is there for all to see and partake in.  I sat spellbound for the entirety of the film and wanted more at its ending.  As an anthropologist, I certainly appreciated the faithfulness of the representation of Inuit culture in terms of the ethnographic works I've read and as a movie buff, I applaud a wonderful job of Inuit actors and film makers sharing their world with us. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film-making!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a beautiful example of passionate film-making, and mesmerizes from the beginning. As an American, I was COMPLETELY ignorant of the Inuit, and decided to rent this film mostly due to word of mouth. Stick it out through the first half hour getting past the difficult names does take some effort. But it's awesomely rewarded by the next two hours. The landscape will take your breath away, and the story will hold you captive. Underneath the sheer artistry, closely examine the fight against evil-spirits it's even relevant to today's struggle against the so-called powerful. What struck me particularly was how naturally the characters understood the razor-thin balance between life and starvation.Simply put, I was breathless after seeing this film.I could recommend this film on the cinematography alone. Adding in the screen writing, acting, and the simply groundbreaking aspect of Inuit film-making, you cannot put off seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Though provoking and well made","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't recall a movie with such a basic storyline grip me for the entire movie. I live in a very cold climate and my appreciation for the Inuit (and other northern aboriginals) has magnified. This movie did not get the publicity it deserved not even in its native country. I do not recommend reviewing the extras on the disc before watching it, it does have a slow start as you try to understand the hierarchy of the tribe, but when it goes you are on edge. What amazed me the most is that these UN-POLISHED actors did such a remarkable job especially in their emotional display. Worth buying to keep, such gens don't come easy "},{"Title":"Goes down easy","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For the longest time, I sort of avoided Atanarjuat The Fast Runner, as I knew the movie was a long one, and about Inuit legend, something that really didn't appeal to me. But when the title became available, I decided to, as they say, throw caution into the wind, and watch this. After finishing it, I'm really glad I had the experience, as it's a pretty amazing movie, both in it's story and the sheer fact that it got made. The story is about one man, Atanarjuat, and his daily life in the cold harsh arctic. He seems to get along well with the other Inuit, but soon, a power struggle erupts, and soon he has to rely on the powers within himself and others to overcome great odds thrown in his way. Again, the sheer fact that this was made, and the fact that they found actors in the caliber of performance that Natar Ungalaaq Pulls off is nothing short of remarkable. I don't know the full story of how this was made, but I am sure these are first time actors here, and they just ace it. Probably because the story hits so close to home. The lead actor, Natar Ungalaaq is to be especially commended for taking so many acting risks as he did (running naked on ice floes??) The only problem I have with this, and this seems to be a common complaint with people who watched this, is that it's quite hard for the first hour or so, to figure out who's who. But other than that, yeah, try to see this one if you can, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Well crafted and refreshingly different","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pretty well guaranteed to be the only Inuit film you will ever see.  This is the story of two brothers and the trouble caused to them by a neighbouring family/tribe and some kind of evil spirit.  The mystical elements are fairly low key and the story revolves around the always popular themes of jealousy, betrayal, rivalry and love.If the plot is nothing new, the people it portrays are.  As the story progresses almost documentary like details of hunting, igloo-building, celebrations and other aspects of life in the frozen north of Canada are provided.  Much of the movies' strength comes the sheer originality of the culture.  When is the last time you saw an Inuit man running naked across the ice being pursued by murderers in seal skins?The cinematography is particularly striking, with the powerful light of the Arctic giving the film its own character.  Vast landscapes of snow and ice are contrasted with the confines of the igloo and tent.  Very impressive for a first time director.The film would probably have been improved by some judicious editing.  As you enter the third hour your desire to see another set of feet trudging through the snow is a little limited.Well crafted, full of fascinating details and certainly one of a kind. "}{"Title":"It's hard to believe that all of this praise is honest.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No, I'll go further most of it could not possibly be honest. We all want this to be a good film, and we all want to be able to say that it's a good film, but we can only do so by thinking so by ignoring the plain evidence of our eyes and persuading others to do likewise.The first thing we must ignore is the lousy cinematography. Atanarjuat was shot not on film but on digital video ... and don't believe anyone who offers the justification, feeble even if true, that it's just too hard to shoot on film in sub-zero temperatures. It was done in the 1920s and it's still done today. Is it perhaps too hard to shoot 35mm inside igloos at night? Not inherently so; after all, Stanley Kubrick shot Barry Lyndon by candlelight back in the mid-1970s. There's no excuse for shooting as badly as this when it can be done properly &#x96; and, for that matter, no excuse for shooting AT ALL if it can only be done this badly. The ice vistas cry out for the sensuous subtlety and razor-sharp precision of film. It's an insult to the material to settle for less. Imagine how badly Lawrence of Arabia would have been spoiled if David Lean had said Ack, the sand, ack, the heat &#x96; I think I'll shoot on video.Make no mistake, the digital video ruins the film all by itself. It's ugly to look at (we can tell, by a process of mental reconstruction, THAT the ice fields are beautiful, but we cannot actually see the beauty). Outlines are fuzzy; it's hard not to squint at them. Necessary details are lost. The pervasive lens flares nearly drove me nuts. In places there's a weird blotchy purplish discolouration that I'm at a loss to explain. The lighting continuity errors (and there are many) are somehow made more obvious. And &#x96; although the digital technology is only indirectly to blame for this &#x96; the amateurish, Dogme-style framing is infuriating. Some say the digital video is the only flaw, which, apart from being false, is like saying It's a good film, apart from the fact that all 243,360 frames are terrible.At first I thought that the story would be as tedious and incomprehensible as the first hour &#x96; or perhaps it only feels like an hour &#x96; promises, but luckily, the outlines of a true epic begin to appear and make it possible for a conscientious audience member to make it through to the end. (It's good that the film is so long &#x96; or at least, it would be good, if it were at all well made. Perhaps it's good anyway, as it gives us time to get used to the film's many failings and begin to ignore them.) We start to care about the central character. This is by no means the utter disaster the opening hour (half hour, whatever) would suggest. But not being an utter disaster is hardly much of an achievement. The acting is at best just barely convincing, at worst painfully unconvincing, the music is uninspiring, the editing has, so far as I can tell, not been thought out at all and the entire supernatural basis of the story has been muffed completely. It would have been franker to leave out the sorcery altogether, rather than to have the cinematographic equivalent of a half-mumbled, Oh, hang on a minute, I forgot the tribal elder was possessed by the Lord of the Walruses, and ... uh ... some magic stuff happened.These are not nit-picks; they are deep flaws that completely undermine the story's sweep. Nor are they aspects of the film that anyone (except children, perhaps) could honestly claim not to have noticed. We cannot but conclude the lavish praise bestowed on Atanarjuat has not been offered in good faith. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking Primal, Timeless Epic","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Atanarjuat (The Fast Runner) is a perfect movie for a hot, summer day -- ice, snow, freezing water and cold wisps of breath as far as the horizon and beyond. But beyond the Nanook of the North-type, docudrama fascination with seeing how to really build an igloo, this first Inuit production is a gripping epic. Like the movie Kandahar, the honest verisimilitude of a world we would never see on our own by native filmmakers and actors adds immeasurably to the experience.I was confused by the prologue with its flash backs and flash forwards and it took me a bit to sort the characters out. But once I did I felt like I was watching a primal universal story unfold, with the same very humanness of Genesis and Greek and Roman myths -- sexual attraction, seductive vs. loyal women (ah, all through time and space men think with the same part of their anatomy!), sibling rivalry, jealousy, elder wisdom, natural leadership, playful children, the search for food and supporting a family, and --as always -- seeking an explanation for man's violent tendencies. Here's it's all compounded by the exigencies of living in a very difficult environment where enemies perforce have to cooperate to survive, and privacy and independence can be death. I absolutely got completely swept up in the story; if the audience wasn't a bunch of senior citizens they probably would have joined in my involuntary oohs and aahs at the dastardly acts of villains, the struggles and revenge by the hero (particularly his amazing naked escape over a glacier), the beautiful smiles of the women, and the victory of true love -- and reaction to the solution unique to their culture. These are not stereotypes but towering mythic figures given life and cold breath.Over the credits, we see how they shot this film in excruciatingly difficult situations for both actors and film crew. The cinematography is particularly outstanding as our eyes adjust to the differences in micro-climates (and it is sometimes summer - time for caribou hunting).The music, however, is disappointing -- rather than native sounds we hear a melange of world music from Shanachie CDs, including throat singing from the other side of the world -- what's with that? (originally written 7/7/2002) "},{"Title":"You'll Never Look at the Arctic in the Same Way","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'll admit--I had my doubts about this one. How can anyone make a movie in a frozen wasteland, where the entire backdrop is ice and snow? How can anyone make that intriguing?I found out how. This was one of the most masterfully written, directed and filmed pictures I've ever seen. The director presents a common thread immediately--a love triangle--and gives us a glimpse of mankind's liknesses despite the venue. The movie was rich in plot, heavy in intrigue and thick with character. By far a terrific movie, one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I suppose I have to respect all those who have seen Atanarjuat and found it a breathtaking work, I have to confess I cannot understand their reaction.  Perhaps I am wrong to demand that this first Inuktitut feature film conform to conventionally accepted standards of film-making.  Perhaps I am misguided to demand some sense of pacing from this sprawling three hour mess of a film, to demand compelling performances from its actors or some sense of meaning from the story.  It can easily be argued that Atanarjuat is not meant to work on the same level as so many of the films moviegoers, even arthouse moviegoers, are accustomed to seeing.  Even if this is true however, it is an answer I cannot accept.  I hope that more and better Inuktitut films will be made in the future, but I cannot say I think that this is a promising start.  For my part, I found Atanarjuat long, dull, pointless, and downright painful to watch. "},{"Title":"A film that stabs right into the Who are we? question","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not understand who or what determines the main comment to appear along with the movie. But I have to say I am not pleased to see the main comment to be the negative one.This movie is a great achievement. In it people magically capture an age long polarization in humanity with this story in a simple, yet beautiful setting. You either get this movie or you don't. You either like Puja, or you don't.All the hollywoodized sponges with over-inflated visual aesthetic taste will probably not get this movie. Because the setting of this movie is not made of plastic like the bridges in Universal Studios, Orlando. It is a real setting, real people, real stories. At the face value, it looks like a cheap movie, but underneath it is an unfolding treasure that reaches into the depths of humanity.If you didn't like the movie, this article will not convince you to like it, so I recommend you to stop reading. It was definitely not a chocolate covered marshmallow like most people like. But those who liked it, please keep on reading. Have you paid attention to the smallest actions and phrases of the inuit people? (some instances, but no real spoilers)Storing oil in a bird's gut, moving the whip with such gentleness to get the dogs down on the snow, the song that atanarjuat sings when he's rowing, the way they touch noses to greet each other, the silent wisdom of 'little daughter','little husband', the metaphoric ice chamber fight, did he say the words 'kill', your bark is louder than your bite.We have a saying in Turkish even the snake doesn't touch you while you drink water. Oki pushes Atanarjuat while he drinks water. It makes me curious if they have a similar moral value, and if symbolism was intended in that scene. And many others.I watched the movie yesterday, and I still feel like I'm in a dream. This movie took me faraway, but in a weird way, much closer to home... "},{"Title":"Stone Age Culture Comes Alive","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Set in an Inuit settlement deep in the Arctic Circle, this film is about one problem in particular  evil.  This film examines its origins and consequences.  It also makes a profound assertion  that the way to get rid of evil is not with more evil, but with forgiveness.  Since all the action takes place within the physical and cultural confines of a Stone Age culture, one might think that the drama lacks emotional depth, vigor, or subtlety.  On the contrary, perhaps it's because the movie is bereft of theatrical embellishments and stratagems, the problem comes all the more clearly into focus.  Despite the wide cultural divide between the Postmodern world of the twenty first century and the primitive world of our hunter-gatherer forebears, we easily identify with the main characters  their hopes, fears, and ambitions.  For that reason alone, Atanarjuat is a remarkable movie.  With respect to the problem of evil, however, what I really love about the film is its emotional complexity, which one wouldn't expect from a three-hour epic revolving around the daily lives of a Stone Age culture.  On one level, there is the Shaman and his curse.  It's part of the package that comes with the religious beliefs of the people.  If one believes in the ability of dead ancestors to come and render assistance to the living, it's also possible for spirits to bring calamity and misfortune to the same.  In this film, beliefs that for me are about as tangible as a ghost in a fog come alive.  On another level, Atanarjuat, like Hamlet, delves deep into the origins of evil within the human heart.  Good old family values such as love, affection, greed, lust, and murder, come clearly into focus.  We're left with judgments about what is right and wrong &#150; judgments that the clan reaches from within the internal logic of its own values &#150; but also with understanding.    "},{"Title":"Don't Confuse Seminal With Great","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Fast Runner is sometimes beautiful to look at, and in its immediacy it is at times able to transport the viewer to another time and place.But this is a bad film. In terms of storytelling, editing and narrative, it just doesn't make any sense. I found myself taken out of the film as much as I was immersed in it due to the poor film-making techniques.I'm sure that there are some people who were generally moved by this film, and it has a few very compelling moments. But as a film overall, I can't imagine how it gets such universal acclaim, especially considering its sub-AV Club technique. (I hate to call anyone's motives into question, but I tend to think that more than a few people who heap praise upon this film are doing so out of a need to praise this plucky group of Inuits for making a film at all. I think it's less condescending to evaluate it out of context.) "},{"Title":"a great Inuit film","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is an extraordinary prise winning movie on Inuit. Such a film in extreme cold of Arctic could only be made by a native. Yes, the director of the film Zacharias Kunuk is an Inuit himself. From the beginning, the movie is quite slow. But time to time tension grows. There are several twists in the movie including some incredible scenes, a man completely naked running with his life on Arctic snow chased by three assassins! That's a heck of a scene to watch.A brilliant job by the director Zac Kunuk. Actually it was even harder for the cinematographer Norman Cohn to capture the scenes, had to make the scenes the way it was. So the guy was really running on the ice, he was really naked, and he fell in the real water, and yes, he was really cold.Worth to watch.But before watching Atanarjuat, I prefer you to see the documentary Nanook of the North (1922). and do some basic study on Inuits. "},{"Title":"Clumsy story in an otherwise fascinating motion picture","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here is one for the history books, Atanarjuat is the first Inuit made motion picture. While it looks primitive, there is something truly haunting and almost prehistoric about it. Atanarjuat, takes us into a world that most of us have never truly understood, expect for the illustrations on ice cream 'eskimo' bars. Visually, Atanarjuat could be considered a mirror to Kurosawa, but in terms of plot coherency, the film is not so strong. The only part which is strait forward is that we know who the hero is and what some of his character motives are. Aside from that, the plot of Atanarjuat, is very loose, unfocused, and features too many characters which from a non-Inuit perspective, all look and dress alike. This makes things confusing for the first half hour, until we start to recognize who different people are. What I like about the story is the cultural anthropology lesson I get from it. It's educational. Every now and then comes a scene of little importance to the plot but shows us something neat. For example, the methods used to design drums, tenderize meat, and kindle fire, are something I haven't seen specifically in any other movie. The music is also something worth noting, very strange very beautiful and hard to place. Sometimes, the score sounds like a mix of Buddist chanting, Australia digeridoo, and African drums.If you can handle a slow movie, Atanarjuat is a film to see, although I can't say I loved it. Not emotionally captivating, but intellectually intriguing. "},{"Title":"magnificent story about love and hate","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Welcome to my top 20 of all time best movies Atanar Juat. Here's a picture that will leave no one untouched. It tells the story of two Eskimo brothers, Atanar and Amaqjuaq, who learned to look out for each other all the time. When Atanar falls in love with Atuat, who was supposed to marry Oki, things start to get hot around the tribe's residence and the two of them have a traditional fight to decide who will be her future husband. Some years later, Atanar passes Oki's tribe as a married man and future father. The local family suggests he takes another woman along on his journey, Oki's sister Puja (with the Eskimo's a man is allowed to marry two women). The two of them get along fine and Atanar decides to marry her too. But then a family problem rises when Atanar catches his older brother doing it with his second wife. At first Puja's stay with the others is unwanted so she runs back to her family in tears and tells them about this incident. When Oki hears about this he becomes furious and decides to kill Atanar and his brother.Great acting and a splendid insight into Inuit traditions and moral values regarding life and death, love and hate. Do yourself a favour and get this one! "}{"Title":"People in the  white bright snow landscape","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Atanarjuat is a beautiful film. To capture images in the ice, with so much light reflecting all over can be complicated, but Atanarjuat is a movie where this becomes an art. Against the white bright snow landscape people become really significant. It's amazing how we people can live in such a place. Atanarjuat came to the little village (3,500 inhabitants) where I live, in Alentejo, Portugal, about 3 years ago, but I'll never forget it. This film expanded my perception on how we can be human in so many different ways and in so many different places. The cold, the white, the snow and the light make a wonderful dream. The most incredible for me is how the people who made the movie were able to show the amazing diversity of beauty in what could be said a rather monotonous landscape. The story is so rooted in it and so universally human, at the same time, that this film is for all of us. "},{"Title":"Tribal fun in the arctic sun","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very entertaining film. Not the greatest technical masterpiece of film-making, but after a while, I actually started to like the effect of the digital camera. In a way, it felt more real, like I was watching home movies... of Inuits 500 years ago... or 1000 years ago... or maybe yesterday. That's probably the biggest strength of this film, complete and utter authenticity. Plus, it isn't tainted by all the postmodernist hokum that would have gotten shoveled into it if some New York art film auteur had done it. The film has no fear of showing real, politically incorrect Inuit life. Vegans beware! I suspect from the comments I've read that it works a little better on the small screen than the big screen because of the recording medium. Yeah, it's long and a little confusing in the beginning, but, dang, I was hoping for another hour by the end of it. Complex, engaging characters, too, and a compelling, universal story. "},{"Title":"A rare privilege","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having looked over a lot of the comments on this site, I feel urged to point out that every one of you is looking at it from a Western Hollywood-based perspective. To criticise the editing is to say it's not a satisfyingly edited film in a way you're used to, it's not poorly edited, it's the way the attention of the director is focussed. Of course the director isn't making the film or caring about a Hollywood perspective, he's making films FOR the Inuit community. So in that way it's a home movie, as someone else pointed out. And while I'm not an Anthropology student, I feel a huge sense of privilege at being able to get an insight into the Inuit culture, hundreds of Anthropology students and professors have tried and failed to get an insight as good as this film gives us. I can't pretend to make one more person like this film, it will always look like a badly edited, poorly shot film to some people, but if you think about this film as a new style of filmmaking for a new, previously barely filmed culture, an underrepresented culture turning the camera on themselves and telling a timeless story in an environment that seems unchanged, then I think you'll get a lot more out of it than just being able to say hey I saw that Eskimo film as some people no doubt have. Plus, how often do you see a film that could have taken place anytime over the last 10 000 years? Truly a unique and marvellous film. Bring on the next one.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing and beautiful though drawn-out.","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A man runs naked across a plain of ice and snow, his feet bloody and his eyes desperate as he glances back at his hunters. When he falls, even having just come in from the sweltering summer heat, you feel the cold.This is the best scene in &#145;Atanarjuat, the Fast Runner', a movie very different from any other you will have seen. What makes it so special is that it is about and made entirely by the Inuit of Canada. It immerses you in the harsh, nearly desolate world of a tiny Arctic community.In such a small group, where a few families live in confined spaces, tensions can be explosive. The story is centered around the rivalry of Atanarjuat and Oki over Atuat, a rivalry which echoes that of their fathers, Tulimaq or Sauri, for leadership of the tribe. In the prologue to the main story we see Sauri assassinate his father with the aid of an evil spirit who continues to haunt the tribe. The struggles of the families of Tulimaq and Sauri lead to a betrayal and a murder that sends the naked man running across the ice. It is a good story, though it is long, slow and sometimes hard to follow. What makes it so memorable is the remarkable lifestyle that it makes seem so real. From dogsleds and ritual combat to seduction and exorcism, we see many of the facets of pre-modern Inuit life, which was built entirely on just two things water and the flesh and bones of Arctic animals. The acting is completely convincing, the music is sparingly but powerfully used and the cinematography captures both the beauty and cruelty of that vast wilderness in the north of the world. It is something far from the conventions of Hollywood and if you have the patience, you will find it fascinating.7/10   "},{"Title":"A stark and memorable ritual tale of ancient Inuit life told in modern digital video","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A friend said this was the first time he'd seen a film story told in the manner of the Icelandic sagas.  What's that mean?  Well, that the characters are opaque, for one thing.  There's no introspection, and no insight into personality.  You know them only by what they do, and they don't say a lot.  There's an awesome neutrality about everything, a submission to fate. Other primitive epics like the Anglo-Saxon `Beowulf' are like this, and a folk epic doesn't explain everything because the traditional audience knows the tale already.  Zacharias Kunuk, the director of `Atanarjuat' or `The Fast Runner,' grew up in a poor, remote Inuit community, and he may not have heard of Icelandic sagas, but his own traditional culture by its nature contains similar elements.  I think it's valid to say this movie doesn't show us just a remote culture but a remote way of telling a story, a slow-moving, ritualistic way that is formal and sometimes awesome, sometimes inaccessible, and the movie in consequence is sometimes moving, sometimes tedious.  Needless to say some viewers have found the result uninteresting while others find it magnificent.  In a sense both camps are right.  The barbaric, stoical life in the harsh, cruelly lovely landscape, the primitive, shocking family conflicts, the working out and eventual ending of an ancestral curse, are inspiring and thrilling things to watch and experience.  One is transported to another world.  But one is also alienated, and confused, and sometimes perhaps bored.  Boredom can lead the way into a wonderful aesthetic experience, and experiencing an alien culture isn't an easy, fun way to spend an afternoon &#150; though watching this movie, three hours or not, is a great deal easier than living in an igloo dressed only in skins and eating raw seal meat.This is a movie, though.  In that sense too there are two opposite ways of seeing it &#150; as somewhat amateurish, and as a masterpiece and a remarkable achievement.  I can't begin to imagine what it's like to shoot in these conditions, even though the filmmakers grew up in this environment.  The authentic quality achieved is none the less remarkable for having been produced by a cast and crew who are almost entirely Inuit.  `The Fast Runner' stands up against other movies about the far north.  It also has a sense of how the story being told relates to cinematic history the filmmaker first fell in love with movies by watching 16 mm. reels of John Wayne at the community center. Two related pictures that come to mind are `The Pathfinder' (`Ofelas') from Norway (1987) and Phillip Kaufman's fascinating 1974 `The White Dawn,' with Warren Oates, Timothy Bottoms and Louis Gossett Jr. as three whalers shipwrecked among the Inuit in the 1890's. `The Fast Runner' has a more primitive, epic quality than either of these, though there were times when I wished for some of the narrative economy of `The Pathfinder,' and some of the point of view of the Phillip Kaufman film  it can be more enlightening to see the clash of two cultures than to be plunged into one without mediation.Even those who consider `The Fast Runner' a masterpiece acknowledge that the opening half hour is confusing and disorienting when it might have been a helpful introduction.  It's not until the attack of Oki and his henchmen on the skin tent, from which Atanarjuat escapes, naked, running across the ice, that the action begins to be clear and forceful and the movie takes on a visual life of its own.  Until then, though this is really a brutal world of violent action, we are only watching gestures that show relationships and the direction of the narrative is muddy.  But from the moment when the killings happen and the chase begins, all is clear.  A much more powerful and dynamic movie might have been made by cutting down to the bare bones of the action.  For me it's only the old woman's banishing the two wrongdoers that has a really profound emotional punch.  Otherwise I am mostly watching ritual displays of emotion and I am occasionally arrested for a moment, but I am not deeply moved.  There are powerful scenes, however, and not just the naked run across the ice.  When Atanarjuat returns from being hosted by strangers, he cuts off his good wife Atuat's coat and puts on a splendid new one.  But when Puja, the disloyal wife, comes up to him, he cuts open her coat too &#150; she thinks she'll get a new one and is at first pleased &#150; but he just leaves her with her breasts exposed and sends her back in shame and humiliation.  It's a powerful demonstration of ritual punishment.  Equally striking (and ritualistic) is Atanarjuat's inviting Oki and his two sidekicks to a separate igloo later on, excusing himself, putting on ice-shoes and taking out a hidden bone knife, and going back to attack and subdue the three men.When the old grandma banishes Oki and Puja, all the slow scenes in igloos and on the ice have paid off and one feels the gut-wrenching power of such a gesture in a culture where communal life is everything. The tension between traditional culture and modern filmmaking techniques and traditions sometimes seems too powerful, and the Inuit filmmakers' desire to convey a sense of their culture too dogged, to allow a finished work of art to emerge. Nonetheless the movie as a whole has a feel that is distinctive and memorable. I may not be happy with every moment of `The Fast Runner,' but I'm keenly aware that its appearance is a special event whose like we rarely see. This is much more than a first film and something far more moving, because it's the first film of a whole culture, a whole nation. I'm grateful to all the Inuit people who made this movie for their determination and skill in bringing their traditions to life for us and providing the world with this remarkable cinematic experience.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Fast Runner was made for the Inuit from their point of view, in their language. It works much, much better than if they had tried to make an Inuit film for the rest of the world. It starts with total immersion. No introduction, subtitled. The Inuit look like potatoes in their bulky clothes, the women are tattooed, the faces are alien, unreadable and unattractive. Then your eye kicks in and you can see who is good-looking and who isn't and you can begin to interpret their expressions and body language. That is exhilarating but there isn't much time to think about it because the unfolding story will keep your attention for the rest of the time. This is a long film that feels short, like time spent in an alternate world. The story is simple. The way plays out in such a different society is what makes it fascinating. The acting is superb and the entire production is seamless so you are as effectively transported as in the first Star Wars movie. In fact it has the same epic feel, but is much more complex morally.The Fast Runner is a once-in-a-generation film. It deserves all the prizes heaped on it. Don't pass it by!In the end credits you see the film makers at work using modern technology. It really strikes you that technology has altered much of the logic of the old ways depicted in the film. For example after Atarnajuat escapes in a spectacular run over the ice his wife and child are dependent on his enemies for food in winter. Women did not hunt seal, perhaps they hadn't the physical strength. Technology, not diamonds, sets females free. But that is another story.  "},{"Title":"Low expectations","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The version I saw was 161 minutes.My review is also a charge of low expectations against those who awarded this film things like Best Editing and Best Picture. This is political correctness run amok.Let's not mistake an important film for a good one. Being the first, and perhaps still the only film in Inuktitut, this is an important film. It's also important for bringing to the world an ancient story most of us would never have heard of otherwise.Let's also not mistake a hard-to-make film for a good one. 1995's Waterworld was hard to make too, and about as entertaining as this one.However, a film is supposed to do a few things.1. Tell a Story.Halfway through this film, I was lost. Now, for that to happen in such a slow-paced film is saying something. Then, when I read a plot synopsis, it appears that not only was I lost, but the parts of the film that I thought I knew, I apparently didn't know at all. For a film to be good, it shouldn't require prior knowledge of an obscure culture, or a secondary source to follow along with.2. Entertain.The editing of this film was such that the story tension and character detail were both sacrificed to the priority of documenting a past Inuit way of life. This is the same mistake that science fiction and fantasy films make when they try to dazzle you with their special effects, as if a CG dinosaur is impressive just because it is on screen for the first time (Jurassic Park). It's not. The past and current Inuit way of life is well worth documenting in film. But it belongs in a documentary, not a drama. If cut in half, it could be a better film.3. Yes, Entertain.While there were some truly beautiful shots, much of the cinematography was little better than you'd expect from any schoolboy with a hand-held camera. I found myself imagining what the same on-screen action would have looked like if a competent team had been permitted to film it. It could have been given the weight that a story that is this important to its people deserves, and could have drawn in other viewers to this story. That didn't happen.Some final random thoughts I have never seen so much urination in a movie that was not pornographic. Also, it was not good to be a dog in the old Arctic. It was even worse to be any other non-human animal. Last, apparently the word translated as forgive doesn't mean forgive, at least as most people understand the concept. Forgiveness doesn't include punishment. "},{"Title":"must see","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are lots of comments on this film already, and I read through some of them after having seen the film.I think the movie is fantastic, unbelievable, and a unique chance to learn about a culture that is different to ours, a life that is different, a way of thinking, and an attitude towards women, murder, spirits in a world where so much is concerned about surviving. I went out of the film and thought I still only got a glimpse of the Inuit's way of life. One of the most intriguing features is that the movie seems like a documentary, but the acting and the cuts. Very well done! The scenery is beautiful, and so are the people. The movie is long, 3hrs, but you don't feel it at all. I was absorbed by it from the first to the last minute. "},{"Title":"A Landmark Film? Yes!  A Great Film? No!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some people have claimed that just because this film is so unique and strange that it must be accepted and critiqued on its own terms. To me that is a cop-out. By putting their stories and legends to film, the Inuit people are now subject to the terms of film. As a film, this is not good. The digital photography is amateurish and distracting. The editing is horrible. The direction is no better than any run-of-the-mill student film.The opening half hour is confusing and poorly constructed. It took quite awhile for me to understand what had happened, and even longer for me to care about what was going to happen. The supernatural elements of the legend were downplayed and muddled (I suspect due to budgetary constraints or the fear that these people might come off as too primitive and superstitious). There's no reason such a simple and universal story of tribal revenge and overcoming evil needs to be three hours long. And while it's interesting to hear this language on film, the actors speaking it (all full-blooded Inuit newcomers to film) are stilted and over-reaching (the crying of Puja annoyed the hell out of me). It's not all bad though. The opening shot of one man and some sled dogs howling at the moon over the icy tundra is striking and beautiful. There's some loving and thoughtful close-ups of the natural beauty of the Inuit faces (the women adorned with some tribal tattoos), and the central conceit of a naked man running across the icy landscape for his life is pretty powerful despite the fact this it is poorly photographed and edited.For all its faults, this is a landmark film in that it is the first dramatic narrative from this unique and isolated culture that Western society only discovered less than a hundred years ago. On those grounds, the film is at least interesting to the extent that you learn much about these nomadic hunter/gatherers of the frozen north and you ultimately learn that any culture rich in tradition and familial ties from modern or ancient times holds the same heartfelt desire, to live a peaceful life on their own terms.This all should be very fascinating for cultural anthropologists but pure torture for the average movie-goer. Still, this is worth watching for its uniqueness even if the only thing you take from it in the end is that you can say to someone, Hey, I saw that Inuit movie! "},{"Title":"A well-intentioned but disappointing film.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am one of probably three Canadians - I think the other two are in hiding - who doesn't believe that Atanarjuat - The Fast Runner is a great film. Every Canadian film critic I have read has declared this to be a masterpiece, or close to it. The critic at the Globe and Mail, which modestly calls itself Canada's National Newspaper, gave Atanarjuat four stars. I cannot remember any film, at least not in recent years, receiving that kind of accolade from the Globe.I went to see Atanarjuat at an art theatre in Ottawa, full of eager anticipation. The trailers I had seen had been promising. The image of a naked man running for his life across the Arctic ice was irresistible. And then there was the Arctic itself, vast and magnificent in endless whiteness and desolation. The opening scenes of the film were stark and arresting, and I settled down to enjoy the next three hours. Unhappily, though, thirty minutes later I was squirming in my seat and checking my watch, moaning almost audibly that there were still  more than two hours to go.Frankly, I found Atanarjuat to be an amateurish and frequently boring film, however well-intentioned. The boredom is occasioned in large measure by the fact that it's at least an hour too long. There are some good sequences and some indelible images, but these, in my opinion, founder under the awkward weight of the whole. I have described the film to friends as an Arctic Western, not greatly different in content from the hundreds of melodramatic oaters that flowed out of the Hollywood machine in the thirties, forties and fifties.In Atanarjuat, we have two good brothers battling three bad brothers and their wicked, seductive sister. Atanarjuat and the elder bad brother compete for the same woman and Atanarjuat wins. The three bad brothers murder one of the good brothers. Atanarjuat escapes - just - taking his famous naked run across the ice while the bad guys, burdened with what looks to be fifty pounds of seal-skin clothing apiece, stumble along behind him and eventually drop away. At film's end, Atanarjuat returns to the community and in a kind of metaphorical shoot-out at the OK igloo, he bests the three bad brothers and they, along with their wicked sister, are banished from the community. Atanarjuat and his wife reunite.It's all too familiar, and even with an overlay of Inuit myth about an evil spirit that afflicts the community, it didn't work for me. The film's dialogue, at least as it is expressed in the subtitles, is mostly banal. Perhaps the actors are saying interesting things in Inuktitut (the Inuit language) but little of that comes through in the mostly one-liners that appear on-screen. It was also very annoying that the director shoe-horned into the film a vaguely Hollywoodish sex sequence between Atanarjuat and the wicked sister, complete with the trendy orgasmic bleating that has become all too commonplace in the mostly bad and mediocre films that flood across our screens these days.Even the celebrated chase sequence across the ice, perhaps the signature moment of the film, fell rather flat for me. Like Atanarjuat's pursuers, I felt it ran out of steam before it was over. Interestingly, it reminded me of the chase sequence in the 1939 John Ford film, Drums Along The Mohawk, where Henry Fonda is pursued by three Indian warriors - the number three has an enduring mythology that transcends many cultures - running for his life across the New York countryside in Revolutionary times. The sequence with Fonda will linger with me for much longer than the one in Atanarjuat. Well, it has already; I first saw Drums decades ago.The film that comes most readily to mind, though, after seeing Atanarjuat is Himalaya, the 1999 film directed by Eric Valli, who used a cast composed almost entirely of local amateurs. In my opinion, Himalaya succeeds where Atanarjuat fails, although both were focused on local traditions and conflicts, and both were set in remote non-western locales. Himalaya, no masterpiece itself but very watchable, is simply a better film.One of the things that does come through in Atanarjuat, and very powerfully, is the depiction of a strong and resolute people who live in an environment that places them almost literally on the knife-edge of survival. It is astonishing, on every level, that they do survive and, in a sense, prosper, making full use of the few resources at their disposal. Even here, though, I have a minor quibble the film appears to be set in prehistoric times, long before the white man entered the picture. Yet, in a number of scenes the Inuit are using implements of iron and steel. One wonders where they could have obtained them.All of that having been said, I think Atanarjuat is an important film. And I don't say this in a condescending way. As many have pointed out on this site, and elsewhere, this is probably the only feature-length Inuit film ever made. Some commentators have suggested that it will likely be the only Inuit film we will ever see. I hope not. Film is important, arguably the most effective way for one culture to communicate with others, and with itself. One hopes that there will be more Inuit feature-length films, building on the few, but genuine, accomplishments of this one. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is so gorgeous and so memorable that I will be hunting down (pun intended) a copy of it TOMORROW! It's a must-have for any serious movie lover's collection.The Fast Runner is unique. How many films have YOU seen that are spoken in the language of the Inuit? Or whose cast is 100% Inuit? OR recount a myth orally passed down within the Inuit community for eons?I have a hard time believing that this movie runs almost three hours. I felt like I'd just begun to watch it and then - it was over . . . and I continued to sit there and absorb this amazing experience.There are movies that cost millions upon millions of dollars and feature the biggest stars, yet The Fast Runner achieves something most of them can't an effortless ability to haunt. Prepare to be stunned by the people, production, locations, music, and power of The Fast Runner. "},{"Title":"A truly unique film.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have this film on VHS and I also recently watched it on APTN. Really good drama that also has a moral lesson that goes with it. I think this film teaches viewers to never take people for granted, especially relatives as it showed here. I believe that evil lurked throughout this film because of the main antagonist brought all that evil to the People and their village. Unfortunately evil is everywhere and wherever there is good, evil is not very far behind. Later on in the film when Oki, the main antagonist killed his own father, he made it look like his father accidentally tripped and fell on his own knife. Perhaps Oki was jealous of his father's success as a good hunter. I don't know for sure... I never understood why he killed him. Anyways... I really liked this one since it's an all Inuit cast ... produced and directed by Inuit! That's why I give this one a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"fascinating world","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An evil had come to the tribe and killed the leader. His ambitious son Sauri takes over. Tulimaq is the worst hunter and a laughing stock. He is ridiculed relentlessly by Sauri. His wife tells his son Amaqjuaq to always look after his younger brother Atanarjuat. The brother grow up to be the great hunters of the tribe. Atanarjuat falls for Atuat who has already been promised to Sauri's malevolent son Oki. They compete in a contest and Atanarjuat wins Atuat. Later Atanarjuat is seduced by Oki's sister Puja who becomes his second wife. Puja causes great problems by sleeping with Amaqjuaq and telling Oki and Sauri that her husband tried to kill her. There is great tragedy and turmoil in the tribe.There are some amazing stuff about the world of the Inuits. The simple act of icing a sled is endlessly fascinating. The story of love and betrayal is great Greek tragedy. It is a little confusing at times because it takes some effort to keep track of some of the characters. The main drawback is the film's inability to explain the magical significance of some of what's happening. It leaves the story a little bit muddled. However there is nothing like this in the film world. "},{"Title":"A very good film discovered by its unintended audience","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a good, surprisingly engrossing film given its long running time and slow pace. I have read some excellent reviews on it and don't know as I can much improve on what's already been said, but I do have one or two comments I'd like to add to the mix. First is regarding the confusing beginning. I was lost for that half hour, but thereafter the film righted itself and the rest was captivating. (Note Wikipedia has a pretty good plot summary and if you follow along with that while watching the movie, you will get more out of it. The summary is really only necessary for the first and last half hours.)I think the thing that must be reemphasized is that this film is a reenactment of an Inuit legend intended for Inuit audiences. The Inuit already know the legend and do not need the beginning (or any other part of it) to be blatantly laid out. It is similar to our recent movies about Hansel and Gretel and Jack and the Beanstalk. Those two films would be confusing if you had no back story, but due to our culture, most of us are very familiar with the tales. Better parallels could be some of the super-hero films coming out today. We have all known about Kryptonite since grade-school. But if you grew up in an isolated state, the Superman movies would also be pretty confusing. Finally, this film was intended for Inuit audiences. We are really just voyeurs allowed to peek in and experience their world. There was never any intention to compete with Hollywood and this film does not measure up to ALL the Hollywood ideals. But it is a timeless story filmed in a beautiful location with wonderful actors (anyone who says otherwise has no familiarity with northern peoples.). Of any marginally mainstream movie that deals with life in the traditional arctic, ATFR gives the truest representation. It is worth a watch for the great story and to give you a jaw-dropping appreciation for the brutality of that life and the ruggedness of the people who are able to endure it. "},{"Title":"The first feature film in the Inuktitut language, spoken by the Inuit tribes of northern Canada.","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is spellbinding as storytelling, it also prompts admiration for the Inuit people's patience, resilience and their overriding concern for harmony with the world around them. An Inuit tribesman gets caught up in internecine struggles for power, possession of women and revenge.Atanarjuat The Fast Runner is a spectacular and strange folkloric epic, driven by basic human impulses that make it remarkably gripping, even over a running time of almost three hours. It's utterly distinctive and original. The film is ranked 47th in the They Shoot Pictures Don't They list of The 21st Century's Most Acclaimed Films. "},{"Title":"A fascinating and educational film.","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have never seen a documentary about the Inuit which taught me as much about these people than Atanarjuat. The strength, skill, and endurance of the Inuit is astonishing. They survive in a vast, frigid, yet beautiful place on Earth. This film gives us a good look at that faraway place and those incredible people. I was fascinated from beginning to end.The story involves good and evil in men, greed, jealousy, betrayal, love. Two men in the Inuit community develop a feud over a beautiful girl and violence results. The Inuit actors give performances so flawless they cannot be critiqued. Very highly recommended for the well-done suspenseful story, incredible scenery and revelation of the Inuit lifestyle. For those who do not mind subtitles, it doesn't get much better. "},{"Title":"Poetry in Motion","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen Atanarjuat years ago in a small theater and was astonished to see so how so much beauty can be combined on one single screen! Then again, I just came across it at my local video store. It's not only the scenery that's mind blowing but also the (innocent) very natural, raw acting that makes this an outstanding art film. The story is being told the the viewer in such a natural, simplistic way, it's hard to believe that life that far up north in the Arctic can be so cruel, and, if things go wrong - they really do and could mean a huge disaster. One wonders why there are not more such well made and breath taking stories like Atanarjuat around?! The music is supporting the picture with a graciously, with a strong effect on the viewer as well. At least, it worked with me..It kinda reminded me of Whale Rider because of its innocent story telling. A must watch! Again and again and .... "},{"Title":"different!  that's what makes this film so good.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  very different.  different than any movie i have ever watched and i loved it.  at first, it's hard to determine who's who and what story is being told.  after a while you realize that it's a story about a people who's lives are so different than our own yet very much similar in a lot of ways. this movie has everything twists & turns, good, and bad, even humor.  i came away from this movie with a great appreciation and understanding for a people who i never cared to even acknowledge because i didn't know them. i'm so glad i rented this movie. it's a movie that you can watch over again as well as recommend to others who enjoy watching movies different than the norm.       "},{"Title":"A surprinsingly good movie","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At first, when I heard about this movie, I tought that the critics were exagerating and that it would turn in fact into a boring movie.  I tought that they were praising the film only because it came from the Inuits.  Also the runtime turned me off at first.  But I was totally wrong.The critics were right.  This is an excellent movie!  Even if it is long, it passed very fast and I didn't checked my watch once.  I was very entertained by the film and never found it boring.I am surprised that the Inuits have as much talent in film-making.  I mean, the entire cast and crew is Inuit.  They are not known to be famous filmakers, so I am pleasantly surprised by the talent they showed in this movie.  This film proved that the Inuits can produce very good actors, which is something I didn't know.This movie explained a lot how these people lived in the tundra.  It was interesting.  Also it showed how their culture worked.  For example, a man could have several wifes, but aldultery was a serious crime.Maybe a thing that I would like to see more in this movie is the dogs.  I love those dogs and I would like to see them more, and see what they eat and where they sleep. "},{"Title":"Gotta run","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A fascinating tale of deception, murder, envy, greed and lust told in an environment totally unique to most people.  Told by Inuits, about Inuits filmed in a very beautiful area covering a couple of generations of one group of Inuits and their struggle with an evil family curse. The movie is long in spots; but, if you are unfamiliar with this area of Canada, the stark beauty will help to fill in the long moments and like us, you will not notice the extra time.The movie includes a running scene that outshines most of the human survival events shown in other classic action films.  The story line is interesting, the people are interesting and the filming is terrific.  You will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Portrayal of women - spoilers","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The telling of an ancient tale, in the real Inuit world, with real Inuit faces, I know because I have been there.  I agree with the comment made about visiting the official website, it explains a lot. I am familiar with some aspects of Inuit life, and I found the website invaluable.Space-13, did you watch the same movie I did? The women in this movie were strong, wise and complex. After Puja seduced her brother in law, Atuat and Uluriaq forgave her, and asked that she be accepted back, and she was. I don't think I would have been so quick to do so. Only after Puja was forgiven and taken back was Amaqjuaq forgiven. Promptly after she is taken back into the family, Puja removes Atuat and Uluriaq from the scene and marks the tent so Oki and his friends can kill he husband and brother-in-law. No doubt in my mind that she was aware of what she was doing, and why she was doing it. Male or female is not important here, evil is evil, good is good. Gender roles are different in this culture, don't examine these people with the same eyes as we look at ours - it's apples and oranges. I saw Puja, although cute as a button and obviously appealing, a spoiled brat, who lied easily and cries when she's caught.In my favourite scene, Sauri's children were cast out at the end by their own grandmother, although they were forgiven. Are we so quick and able to forgive? As hard as it was for her, she had to expel them; their inherent evil made them a risk to the community.  "},{"Title":"wonderfully different","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an wholly Inuit movie about an old Inuit legend, dealing with power, jealousy, revenge and forgiving. The Inuit language sounds unfamiliar and adds to the strange atmosphere, so that the viewer becomes part of a world he oder she doesnt usually have access to. And no documentary about the Inuit could possibly create this atmosphere. The movie is best in its differences to the movies and stories we all are more used to. Go see it, but make sure, you visit on of the informing websites beforehand. If you study the underlying legend by detail you wont feel lost the first 60 minutes. "},{"Title":"A Contrasting View","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am addressing this review specifically to space-13, from Milwaukee.  You pose a series of questions with ludicrously easy answers.Puja conspired in the murder of Atanarjuat's brother.  She would have been complicit in Atanarjuat's murder, but he ran away.  There is no question of her complicity; it was quite obvious if you were paying attention.  It was her lie in the first place that exacerbated the bitterness which already existed between the rivals.This film was a retelling of a 1,000 year old folk-myth, and there is no indication WHATSOEVER that the director found it admirable.  Oki's cruelty to animals was part of the story, demonstrating his evil nature, and the other cruelty to animals (driven across the ice all day) was a fact of life in this milieu.I would say that there is very little point in watching a film which you fail to comprehend so utterly. "},{"Title":"A very interesting must see Cultural Film","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recommend this to anyone who is curious about native Alaskan and Canadian ways life.  The film is a production miracle!  I found it difficult to understand on first viewing, but was very worthwhile once you get through it.  My only critique is the editing.  The takes and cuts could have been easily trimmed up all around to make the running time (pun intended!) under 2 hrs.  The film could have also used a narrator at least at the beginning to help the accomodate the audience  a bit. "},{"Title":"An Inuit Story","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Atanarjuat, achieves its glory through filming a story. It is a beautifully crafted film, spoken generations upon generations of elders through their native language, Inuktitut. The images endure in your memory forever, as to the stunning northern wilderness to struggle endured by our characters. The Inuit and Canada should be proud of this film, for now the stories of our fathers can be told through film at the dawn of this new Millennium. I await the future films by Zacharius Kunuk and the diverse people of our north.  "},{"Title":"Capulets and Montagues in the Arctic","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree with the comment that the very beginning of this film is confusing, but it becomes another reason to re-view this fascinating movie. I was predisposed NOT to find this movie interesting, but the characters and story telling drew me in.  Who'd have thought there were so many believable actors in Nunavut? "},{"Title":"Just urinating","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Have you ever seen a movie in which now and then you see a man urinating and it has no special function?This film implies absolute purity. It is maximal naturalism in the middle of nowhere, at a place that seems do dream-like, so little real to most of us. As most stories set in very cold and barren regions, Atanarjuat has that touch of existentialism. And really, the story is quite simple, a classic family revenge plot like they are often peopled by Ancient Greek gods and goddesses.In the beginning, you have no idea what it is all about and who is in which way related to whom &#150; actually all the characters look the same in their thick clothes. But it doesn't really matter because you get enchanted by the beauty of the combination of light and snow, white and yellow, and maybe by the interesting sound of Inuktitut, the Canadian Inuit's language. Or by the sound of their boots as they press the snow again and again. Quite a lot to be impressed with.Slowly &#150; very slowly, the plot unfolds, the characters gain image, and you become completely absorbed into a mysterious and strange legend that happened long-long ago and aat a place very distant from us, both geographically and mentally.Interesting enough that, after the end of the actual story, the filmmakers attached some `making-of' shots as they are quite commonly known from Jackie Chan movies. Suddenly, we see the people we just got to know wearing modern clothes and making jokes. And this seems weird to us. Before we leave the theatre, we are gently lead back to reality.  "},{"Title":"A different language","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The biggest surprise about the for Inuit-produced feature is that you do not need to be politically correct to like it. It is, besides a few excusable flaws, just a great film.  It is extremely difficult to transfer stories from foreign cultures and oral traditions to the screen - the whole visual language of the media is loaded with subtle assumptions on how stories hold together and characters should act; and these assumptions mostly belong to Western-modern culture. I think this films great achievement is to avoid much of it. One example It's not just due to the villainous character of some persons that they behave badly - the conflicts are not just conflicts between individuals. It's rather the entire community that is ill, due to spirit possession.The film is told in a somewhat different visual language, and this is what makes it so convincing; this is also what makes it difficult to understand at times (particularly in the beginning), but this is the price to pay - it is rather surprising how comprehensible it gets later. The film as a whole is really exciting and touching. It's pace is slow (and I like slow-paced movies). It's solutions for particular scenes are striking - the appearance of the bad spirit in the end is eerie, and the effect is just done by the camera position. On the other hand, there is a sort a documentary immediacy to everything, as if the camera just happened to be in the right spot when the story unfolded (I liked the burping and spitting a lot).There are, of course, points that don't work out well The music is the usual One-World-Tribal-kitsch-mud, with didgeridoos and Tuvan throat-singing, as if every primitive culture was just the same (an idea originating from 18th century Europe and strangely enough professed by many tribal activists today). But, well, it's pretty discrete... "},{"Title":"Raw and innovative filming","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The National Film Board of Canada has an good reputation on documentaries and excellent films but this one is as real cinema can get! The ability of the director to bring viewers so close and breathe with the Inuits for three hours is to his credit. Basic social principles are all dealt in their barest of forms revealing basic human sentiments. No room for complex forms of communication. Trivialities are all lost in the wide open arctic landscape of Nunavut (I guess). I've seen this movie twice and can see it again easily! White nature and human ritual are all recorded on digital camera. One of the best films of that year! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Eskimo legend becomes glorious, riveting classic melodrama","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you were to tell me that I'd be absolutely riveted by the first Inuit eskimo language film ever, a three hour-long retelling of a local legend shot on digital video by a first-time feature director with a cast of amateurs, I'd find it very hard to believe you. And yet, that is precisely what happened with Atanarjuat I sat there enthralled, riveted by the timelessness of a story that wouldn't be out of place in a Hollywood melodrama of the forties yet carries the powerful documentary impact of Robert Flaherty's Nanook of the North. The digital video turns out to be not a budget restraint or a photography gimmick but the only possible way to film in the freezing Inuit lands, since film perishes quickly at the surrounding temperature, although it also gives the film a fly-on-the-wall quality that fits its first-ever audiovisual record of the culture and tales of the Inuit people. The story is, in fact, a centuries-old Inuit legend about fast runner Atanarjuat, a young hunter in love with the beautiful Atuat, who fights the village chief's petulant son Oki, to whom she is promised, for her hand - and wins; unsurprisingly, tragedy ensues. Superbly paced - something even more astonishing for a first feature, despite Zacharias Kunuk's short feature and documentary background -, Atanarjuat is at the same time a relic from days gone by and an astonishingly modern vision, an unexpected but successful marriage of the past and the future. A film whose many qualities come straight out of the great classic golden age of cinema, defiantly reinvented with digital technology to allow a people to tell its tales to the world. And the good thing is that Atanarjuat is much better than simply a token exotic novelty it's a fully-fledged film with a heart and a soul bigger than most Hollywood blockbusters.  "}{"Title":"The Real Thing Inuit style","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Atanarjuat (The Fast Runner)The first striking thing about this three-hour epic from Igloolik, an Inuit outpost off the Melville Peninsula in the Canadian Arctic, is that it is a highly professional film containing the authentic voice of an Aboriginal people who had almost no contact with Europeans until the 1930s. A few hundred of them roamed a huge territory hunting seal, caribou, walruses and even whales for several thousand years, until the explorers (an inept lot, in comparison) and missionaries came.The second thing is that while it is authentic (all that raw meat), it's also a good story, with plenty of drama and suspense. There's lots of family values &#150; the real ones like lust, jealousy and revenge. Maybe one or two scenes could be trimmed, but the three hours goes pretty fast (like Atanarjuat himself) and there are plenty of close-ups to offset the somewhat monotonous landscapes. Even the surrounds have their moment such as the nice sunsets (hey, I thought we were above the Arctic Circle) and the tundra in summer. No caribou though and it's a pity a few seals weren't bludgeoned to death on camera to annoy the animal rights loonies. Unfortunately Canada is the home of political correctness and even Inuit filmmakers have to compromise.But the really interesting thing was the humanity of the characters. Despite the restrictions of their environment these people have a full-blown culture of their own. Their lives seem incredibly hard to us, yet they don't think so, at least when the caribou are fat and the hunt is successful. Their spiritual beliefs are a little obscure (a second viewing might help), but they seem happy with their place on the planet &#150; not than anyone else is fighting them for it. It's quite likely any sequel won't have the same impact, but that doesn't matter. The Inuit, assisted by digital video, obviously did this for themselves, and that's as it should be. I feel privileged to be allowed to see into their culture. I'm not sure what we have to offer in return. "},{"Title":"Homeric grandeur in the snow","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Normally I would rebel at a length of nearly three hours for any film; but in the case of Atanarjuat I felt this extreme length justified by both the epic quality of the story and the limitless horizon of the Arctic landscape, a feature almost ever present on the screen.By the time Atanarjuat was over, I felt I'd witnessed storytelling worthy of Homer or the Greek tragedians basic human conflict in the raw, in a timeless setting, with elements of magic (intervention of the gods?)--and a genuine catharsis at the conclusion.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"an unusual masterpiece..","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie reminds me of an Eskimo version of one of Bergman's tales. It is a gripping story of families, loss, love, victory, and ultimately justice.  Plus it takes you deep into a culture that many of us know only as cartoon-like stereotypes.  A great movie, with a few flaws, but the flaws are overshadowed by the strength of plot, the acting and the direction..highly recommended, especially for fans of serious film. "},{"Title":"The humanity of the characters, both good and bad, and the dazzlingly vistas make this film memorable.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How many times have you heard this philosophy in film `All I have is memory'?  `The Fast Runner' is just such a memory film of the Iglooik people telling a 1000 year-old story of feuding brothers, unfaithful wives, and patricide most foul. The beginning voiceover says, I can only say this story to someone who understands it. If it sounds like `King Lear' or `Hamlet,' it's not quite Shakespeare but close. It is as close to today's internecine and global wars as any other movie you will see this year. Set against the vast, frozen, flat, brilliantly-lit  Arctic Circle, this tragic tale slowly reveals a small family circle that must deal with their crimes without the help of kings or counselors or cops.  They have only themselves, and despite that, or perhaps because of it, they must work out solutions that not only do not disintegrate the circle but also mete out the punishment satisfactorily.A naked man running for his life for 15 hours over the frozen tundra is an enduring image; two men alternately hitting each other in the face, waiting for the blows, is as unusual a fight scene as you will ever see.  It's all a part of the heavily ritualized culture, where breaking from the norm is a critical occurrence. Everyone sleeping in the same tent lends a new meaning to family unity. Forgiveness for heinous crime is a lesson still to be learned by far more advanced cultures.I was moved by the grandeur of last year's epic `Himalaya.'  This year's extraordinary `Fast Runner' has given that film a run for its money. The humanity of the characters, both good and bad, and the dazzlingly vistas make this film memorable. Don't miss the outtakes at the closing credits and the shots of the very modern actors who so convincingly play first-millennium Inuits.`The Fast Runner' deserved the Camera d'OR for best first film at Cannes.  "},{"Title":"unique and yet universal","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The cultural, historical, and metaphysical aspects of this story would have been more appropriate in an anthropology text or a museum than a film, if not for the fascinating characters, naturalistic acting, and stunning cinematography in this great epic.  Much has been made of the details of Inuit life that seems like an educational film, but they are simply part of this strange milieu and lifestyle, as much as a shot of redeye and a poker game in a Western saloon scene.  And the emotions and situations are as universal as an American western or any other masterpiece of world cinema that speaks a truly common language.  Even though reading the synopses has helped me understand the opening 20 minutes better, I wish I had stayed in the theater to view the beginning again.  I will probably see it again anyway.  And its nearly 3-hour length did not drag for me in the least... "},{"Title":"   Striking naturalistic epic","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Deliberate and at times alienating pace and unconventional narrative structure would probably make this something of an endurance test fot those unwilling to be drawn into the stark depiction of Inuit social conventions. Rather wan looking transfer from high speed video works a bit against the visual splendor aspect, and the rather choppy habit of jumping over long periods of time without explanatory titles could slow down an audience's ability to warm up to natural integrity of the cast's performances...and some refreshingly vital humor in the subtitled dialogue.  Still if you can get past the rather unneccesary opening scenes and get involved in the central plot of two brothers and the faithless woman who rocks their existences you might find yourself unexpectedly transported to a very alien...but amazingly familiar world of desire, jealousy, and betrayal.  The film's central conceit of the hero making a nude run across the ice is striking...but the real heart of the film is the naked unfiltered humanity of the characters and the film's ability to take us into their world. "},{"Title":"   Striking naturalistic epic which manages to introduce it's audience to the unique conventions of Inuit society and slips in an almost Shakesperian plot of murder and revenge which grips despite overlength","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Deliberate and at times alienating pace and unconventional narrative structure would probably make this something of an endurance test fot those unwilling to be drawn into the stark depiction of Inuit social conventions. Rather wan looking transfer from high speed video works a bit against the visual splendor aspect, and the rather choppy habit of jumping over long periods of time without explanatory titles could slow down an audience's ability to warm up to natural integrity of the cast's performances...and some refreshingly vital humor in the subtitled dialogue.  Still if you can get past the rather unnecessary opening scenes and get involved in the central plot of two brothers and the faithless woman who rocks their existences you might find yourself unexpectedly transported to a very alien...but amazingly familiar world of desire, jealousy, and betrayal. The film's central conceit of the hero making a nude run across the ice is striking...but the real heart of the film is the naked unfiltered humanity of the characters and the film's ability to take us into their world. "},{"Title":"Arviat Screening","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw a screening in Arviat Nunavut of  Atanarjuat  along with nearly the whole population of the hamlet.   The film ws very well received by both the Inuit and Kablonak .  The elders and the kids seemed to like it the most.. the kids recited lines in Inuktitut and read the English subtitles as the screening progresses...  The elders were all smiles and chatted much about the film. A hero has returned from the Inuit past to touch the Inuit future...  a great document both cinimatographically and culturally. "},{"Title":"A great flick for a Sunday afternoon.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you like minimal dialogue, classic story-lines, and man in nature type stuff, this is a great flick for you.  Though it is a little confusing in the beginning, the plot gets going soon enough and one quickly finds themselves transplanted into another time, place, and way of life.  A great flick for a Sunday afternoon.    "},{"Title":"Unique and so must be accepted on its own terms","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Inuit live in place like nowhere else.  Most obviously the cold in the far Arctic would kill everyone of us within a day or so and not far behind that challenge is the constant search for food.  These physical circumstances set the tone and place of Fast Runner and introduce us to a truly alien world.  At the start of the movie the inhabitants of this world look and act in alien ways as well.  Much has been made of the fact that this movie was written, directed and acted by Inuits, and this lends an all too rare authenticity to the movie.  The people on the screen may not be pros, but they are real and that wins out.  But even more important, the story is based on an old Inuit tale and demands that those who act it out understand why this story is important.  These people do.  Still, this would hardly matter if the story was as alien as the setting.  To our everlasting fortune, it is not.Fast Runner gives us a lean story, but a universal one.  It revolves around lust and power but with the added edge of the true challenge of the Inuit, a social structure built around at most a score of people on whom you depend to survive the harsh outside world.  Here is a place where a little evil has lasting consequences, and overcoming evil is essential for life itself.  The movie takes its time with the tale, something I appreciated as it allowed us to feel both the strangeness of Inuit world and the elemental viewpoint that engenders, as well as the universal humanness of the people themselves.  One great example of how the story applies to all of us is found in the exchange between a grandmother and her granddaughter immediately after the younger woman has been raped.  The comments are heartfelt, simple and, not in spite of those characteristics but because of them, quietly true.Is it a major work of art?  I believe it is.  It has integrity, humor, real sorrow, and opens a windows on the human soul.  Most highly recommended, especially for those willing to transport themselves to a strange landscape with the intent of discovering what we as a species all share. "}{"Title":"Problematic But Amazing","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As others have commented, the film has been getting raves, so I did have high expectations. I must say after a very confusing, almost incomprehensible opening scene, once it focused on the two brothers - the film just took off and was fascinating to me. To show the harsh, brutal life of the Inuits and yet also show that their village, like anyone's village is full of lust, jealousy and petty differences was terrific. The film takes on an almost Shakespearan quality with villains obsessed with punishing those who they feel have done them wrong. The harsh living conditions, the brutalizing of the snow dogs, the constant search for food of any kind, this all is amazing but the main story of a rivalry between two families is what carries the film and I found it an incredibly involving movie experience. recommended for those who love foreign films and embrace things that are different. "},{"Title":"A world unfolds.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film is confusing at the beginning. More needed to be explained -- about the shaman battle leading to death. But from that point on this film is a wonderful experience.An entire world unfolds, different than ours, but not at all unaccessible. Not only in modern times do some live lives of quiet desperation.The story telling technique may be difficult to get into for some. It reminds me of style of Icelandic sagas where one anecdote follows another, often with no obvious connection, and not everything is wrapped up neatly. This is what happened, the story seems to say, but not always why it happened.What was the motivation behind Sauri almost forcing Puja on Atanarjuat as another wife. Perhaps to heal any ill-feelings, but we do not know and bind the brothers to him. But we dod not know. Yet that scene is a gem with the forced smiles on both sides, except for Puja's obviously  genuine delight.Do Sauri and Oki know that their sister Puja was driven out for committing adultery? Their blame is the less if they have been  deceived by Puja. But we never know. Nor do we fully see Puja's motivation.These are not defects, but the product of a style of story telling in which we are told what happened, not always why. The close-ups and hand-held style of much of the cinematography magnificently drags the viewer right into the story.The final scene with a cheaply done shamanic battle, where one of the parties has walrus tusks stick out of his mouth, could be been disastrously tacky, but not a single giggle from the audience during my viewings of the picture.This film makes you want to suspend your belief, which is more important than any technical trickery.The sound track is magnificent, from throat singing to Celtic fiddle. "},{"Title":"If long, but impressive nonetheless","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first Inuit film about an Inuit legend, acted by Inuits, produced by an all out Inuit cast, none of them professional actors.  What do you end up with?  A fascinating look at a culture people really get to see, a landscape shot in digital video (no doubt the only equipment that could work in that sometimes forboding environment) that looks amazing, a universal story that transcends an era (is it now?  is it 18th century, is it during the ICE AGE??!?!), and a cast that tells a tale and creates characters better than most people earning the big bucks in Hollywood.The film I did find a little overlong, it felt like at times the numerous school pictures and images I saw sometimes in school of Inuit people as a kid through documentaries.  But for those who never even considered what this culture had to offer or even look like, I am sure they will be entranced.Everyone can relate to the stories humanity, waring tribes, love and deceit.  It also contains a scene of a man fleeing for his life running stark naked endlessly across the frozen arctic from his pursuers.  It is a scene that is jaw dropping..However, the length did cause me to check my watch at times.  It does run into 3 hours and many of the scenes sometimes caused me to wonder where the story was going.  But can I say I have ever seen anything like this before or that impressive by a bunch of so called first time film-makers and cast.  Far from it..Rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Unforgettable and beautiful, a powerful cinematic experience.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unforgettable fable of Inuit culture, handed down a thousand years through oral storytelling and here rendered through digital video to the big screen. Nearly three hours, and not a dull moment, the film is so full of utterly foreign details of Inuit life that one's attention never flags. The story of love, betrayal, deceit, revenge, and ultimately, forgiveness, that seems simple at first, becomes complicated with all the intricacies of human interraction, which apparently hasn't changed much, over continents and time. The performances by a largely non-professional cast are natural, completely convincing, and powerful in their understated, unemotional way which one can only assume is natural to Inuit culture. This is a film of Shakesperean poetry and dimension, timeless and true, full of visuals and vistas that are startling, profound, and beautiful Vast washes of snow that undulate like an ocean, bizarre Inuit fighting rituals, the slaughtering and consumption of animals, the endless variety of fur clothing. Faces that seem indistinguishable at first, become as familiar and unique as your own family by the film's rich and satisfying end. It takes some time to grasp the relationships and time leaps of the story, but it all comes together when it has to, and we are never rushed to make sense of it all. A truly unique and poweful cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"A Glimpse Through Non-Western Eyes","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Most stories are told from a Western point of view. That this movie shows an unknown way of life through the eyes of the participants makes it riveting. That the story, acting and cinematography are great is a bonus. Not for lovers of formula movies, but for those who seek an experience, not just entertainment, from their cinema.  "},{"Title":"very interesting","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  atanarjuat is an historic film, it is the first film ever shot in the inuit language and besides 'nanook from the north' (1922) it is one of the very few films that focus on the inuits' lives. however, unlike the film from robert flaherty, atanarjuat is not a documentary, it is a story-telling film; the film's plot is an old inuit tale. It is this that makes the film interesting. but the director, zacharias kunuk has done a fine job too. he likes to explore new camera angles, but never forgets that his directing is serving the plot and not the other way around. the cinematography, the arctic light and the unprofessional actors are quite amazing as well.however the story is very simple and stretched over 160 minutes it makes the film become really boring at places. nevertheless atanarjuat is a very beautiful and important> film.  "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my favourite kind of movie a glimpse into another way of life with mythological overtones. An examination of good and evil, the ending blew me away. Without disclosing the end, a fairly standard plot of jealousy and revenge is transformed by a non-Western view of good and evil.The film is gorgeous, the detail meticulous and (I assume) authentic. "},{"Title":"Near masterpiece, if only not shot on video","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a real shame this film was shot on video, because it is incredibly close to being Canada's Lawrence of Arabia.  The soft, fuzzy images are the only distraction in an otherwise amazing experience.  This is truly an epic film, and a near masterpiece.  It is probably Canada's first actual Canadian Film, being entirely written and created by the Inuit people of Igloolik.  It is definitley worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film, but ass killing long.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first half of the movie was sensational, like nothing I've ever seen. Unfortunately it needed about a half hour of editing because it loses momentum especially at the very end. Not a bunch of superfluous scenes but rather a number of the scenes could have been cut in half without negatively affecting the plot. A view into a fascinating world but by the last ten minutes I was praying for it to end(the theatre seats were as much an issue for me as the movie length). I have to recommend it but see it well rested in a comfortable chair. "},{"Title":"this is what movies are all about","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is around three hours in length, but aside from being a bit sore, I would have sat through another hour. Based on a legend, which turns out to be a great story, this movie shows that certain themes are universal, despite a completely alien (to most of us) setting. What's fascinating here, too, is how a different culture deals with these problems. Great stuff! Like all landmark movies, you're carried away from your time and place and return feeling positive about the power of great film. And this was directed by a first-time director! The tension near the end of the film as the story resolved itself was fantastic. I think the credits indicated that the writer passed away before the film was completed, but his spirit is surely infused through this movie. Incidentally, the entire crowd stayed to watch all of the credits.If you're Canadian like me, you'll feel even more proud to experience this movie and walk away realizing it was done by and is about our Inuit citizens up north. I hope the director puts more stories on film for us to enjoy. "}{"Title":"A movie that has finally come home!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story of The Fast Runner has finally journeyed home to movie screens in the country of its birth!Following the details of the plot was a little challenging in the beginning due to flashbacks to the childhood of Atanarjuat and his brother, Amaqjuaq as well as life between the two families involved.  However, some of the pieces are picked up later in the film.  Natar Ungalaaq in his role as Atanarjuat goes the distance and more in one extended scene, running from pursuers across vast expanses of snow, ice and bone-chilling water completely naked.While it would be impossible to say that no animals were harmed in the filming of this picture, it would be easy to believe that like the Inuit, the movie cast and crew used every part of the animals used as props.  Hunting the Inuit way is still a reality for a very small number of Inuit and other northern peoples.  It would be difficult to try to simulate the numerous props and costumes required using non-animal materials in order to demonstrate daily Inuit life.The movie was nearly three hours long, in Inuktitut and subtitled. In this showing, hardly anyone budged from their seats even when the credits started to roll and they stayed put until the screen went dark.  That in itself speaks volumes. "},{"Title":"Astonishing document, great movie","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Zacharias Kunuk has given us a detailed, intimate glimpse of what life was like for the Inuit  centuries ago. If that were the only thing he accomplished, it would be enough.But Atanarjuat is more than a mere historical document; it is a great movie by any  standard. It transports you to another place and time, and immerses you in a gripping, epic  tale. Yes, it's nearly three hours long, but I wasn't bored for an instant.The acting, particularly by Lucy Tulugarjuk as the duplicitous Paja, is better than you'd see  in most Hollywood movies. The cinematography is breathtaking, particularly considering  that it was shot on digital video. The script has dozens of unforgettable scenes, all  masterfully captured by Kunuk and his cast.Atanarjuat is unlike any movie you've ever seen, or likely ever will see. How often can you  say that? Let's hope Kunuk manages to avoid being sucked into the mainstream. This is a masterpiece, and will live forever as a landmark in world cinema -- yet it didn't even  receive an Oscar nomination as Best Foreign Language Film. Then again, How Green Was  My Valley beat out Citizen Kane... "},{"Title":"Quite, quite different","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is what one would imagine one would recieve were one to give a group of arty inuits a d- betacamera.  It could have been terrible but the finished result is somewhere between a documentary asto the acient inuit lifestyle and an extreamly gripping (never told before) st least not in this way- storyline.  The legends explored in this film are hard to follow.  It is advisable to watch it twice really- if you can handel it for six hours! The director makes absolutly no allowances for southerners i.e. south of the artic circle.  Not wanting to bore you, i would certainly say it is not a great film in the same way as godards Alphaville or Fellinies eight and a half but it is certainly different, maximising the potential of cinema. It is the type of film that cinema may as well have been invented for.  The vast landscapes of pristine white ice, acient traditions, supurb acting make this film a dream. JOE "},{"Title":"This film is an epic","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It may not have the budget of The Gladiator, but this is a film which achieves epic status without the moneyThe story is based on an ancient parable which has stood the test of time through centuries of Inuit cultureThe natural scenery is breathtaking, and the on-set scenery is hand-crafted - the whole film is thoroughly believable as an 11th century adventure.The actors are whole-heartedly genuine. Being Inuits, they inherited the roles from their ancestors and lived it through their culture. This is the ultimate form of method acting. Stanislavski would faint with admiration. Dustin Hoffman would faint from jealousyThe film is long - but if you invest yourself in the whole experience of the epic you do not notice time passing.I hope there will be more Inuit films. Perhaps it will develop into a local film culture, like Bollywood or Japanese martial arts films.  "},{"Title":"Best Eskimo Movie Ever?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pretty well guaranteed to be the only 'Inuit' film you will ever see. Probably the best film about Eskimo's you will ever see. Certainly puts the competition in the shade. You may wait for this summer's 'Atanarjuat International Eskimo Of Mystery', and its sequel 'The Eskimo Who Shagged Me', but if you only see one film about Eskimo's this year, make it 'Innuit'. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is amazing I have never seen anything like it I have spoken with Inuit people and this is just what they are like. The most impressive thing about this film is the Cinematography Brilliant I recommend this film if you love good movies  "},{"Title":"Shockingly real","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For those of us who are patient and willing to adventure into the unfamiliar, humankind will never cease to amaze us with it's richness, the result of its diversity&#x97;which is to say, its humanity. This shockingly real film is a diamond for both the Inuit people, for it is the first film in the Inuit language and splendidly adapts the story of one of their greatest legends to cinematic format, and for the entire world, who get the privilege and opportunity to journey into life in the ancient Arctic. Atanarjuat is an epic film with its gripping and rich plot, exceptional acting, unforgettable characters, beautiful scenery, thoughtful cinematography, attention to historical detail, and insight into the human condition that take you right into the legend&#x97;if you make the choice to go there. Who are we? and Where are we going? seem to be director Zacharias Kunuk's driving forces, which, perhaps, will lead you to the same questions. "},{"Title":"I can only sing this song to someone who understands it. Give yourself half a chance and you will","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Evil came to us like death and we just had to live with it, says the legend teller. The Fast Runner is a powerful, fascinating film about an Inuit community of less than two dozen people, living their lives above the Arctic Circle anywhere from a thousand to a couple hundred years ago. Their world is made up of vast frozen tundra and endless snow combined with the claustrophobia of living together in such close quarters that there are no secrets. Their survival and happiness depend on everyone living together in harmony. When the leadership of this group is assumed under questionable circumstances, when a rival is humiliated and when power is worked unfairly, evil descends on the group. The feelings of envy, ambition and lust which lead to murder may be familiar to anyone in any culture; how this plays out in such a small group of people and in such cold, severe conditions turns this movie into a unique and engrossing experience. Saari is the leader of the group. He has a son, Oki (Peter-Henry Amatsiaq), and a daughter, Puja (Lucy Tulugarjuk). Tulmaq, now dead, had been a rival for leadership long ago, but had been humiliated until his spirit was broken. He had two sons, Amaqjuaq, who was called the Strong One, and Atanarjuat (Natar Ungalaaq), who was called the Fast Runner. Oki has grown to be a bully. As a child he and Ayuat (Sylvia Ivalu) were promised to each other, but now she and Atanarjuat have fallen in love. Oki and Atanarjuat settle the issue in a brutal fight. In front of the group, they stand facing each other. Then they take turns deliberately hitting each other on the side of the head as powerfully as they can. The one who fails to get up loses, and that is Oki. From then on we see how Oki's resentments and envy, and his sister's own trouble-making, lead to murder. By the time this small community casts out evil, Amaqjuaq is dead and Atanarjuat has barely escape with his life, running naked over ice fields and through pools of icy water, pursued by three killers, Oki in the lead. If nothing else does, this race against death will stay with you. Atanarjuat survives and finally returns to the group, where justice is meted out. This film puts us in the middle of this tiny community. We see how they live, how they hunt, how they survive, they way they build an igloo, what they butcher and how they eat, how they dress. More powerfully, we see how they must adjust and accommodate. This is a community so small that resentments must be settled early, where humor can be direct, where intimacy is a part of the life; and where jealousy, envy, trouble-making, love and passion are the same as everywhere else. I can only sing this song to someone who understands it, the legend teller says at the beginning of the movie. The story is long (172 minutes), the language, Inukitut, is strange, the environment is frigid and unforgiving. But the people come from the same pool of humanity as we do. Give this film half a chance and you'll find you understand the song. "},{"Title":"new genre? hope so","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was warned that this movie was slow, but actually the story moves quickly and is intricate (yet universal), so that the viewer is constantly engaged in the plot alone, not to mention the landscape and the cultural details. The latter two would have sufficed to make an extraordinary film; the story, or legend, is an extra, and a peculiar, only sometimes familiar, and poignant one at that. There are moments when the guys hanging out in the igloos look and act like your basic stadium-rock hooligans, and there are moments when these men and women show directly a nobility that makes your heart flutter and ache. It is a nobility that cannot be acted, not by the finest actors in the world. This is what makes this film so precious and fascinating, almost to the point of voyeurism. It may not be long before everyone in the world has the same set of gestures, the same looks on their faces, the same physical reactions to the same sets of circumstances. Here we are allowed to see different faces, movements, expressions of being. And we are allowed to hear the language. So many languages fade away every year. My one complaint why, when we were brought so thoroughly into the world of the Inuit, did we have to hear music from five or six totally other cultures? This created a completely annoying New Age veneer over the whole thing. Is there no music native to the Inuit people (other than singing - and why not just use singing?)?This movie, along with the splendid one about the weeping camel that came out this year, makes me think that there may be a new genre of film-making emerging. It seems based on traditional documentary style, but uses a narrative, and particularly a legend specific to the culture to dramatize the culture. It seems to have a far more spacious and generous approach to these remaining far away places than have had previous attempts to capture such places. And the people behind the scenes- writers, directors, etc. - seem to be of the cultures themselves, as well - though the funding is from elsewhere, of course.May the funding, and the movie-making, continue.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We rented this not knowing what to expect, and within a few minutes, were drawn into the complexities of this culture that we never before encountered.  The scenery was entrancing, the details of daily life so genuine, and the conflict between individuals transcended the culture and language gap.  Some of the most beautiful scenes were inside the large igloos, with the light shining between the blocks of snow.  The courage and goodness of Atanarjuat and the love shown between 'Little Mother' and 'Little Daughter' were sublime.  "}{"Title":"a riveting piece of entertainment","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Atanarjuat, The Fast Runner tells a thousand-year old Inuit legend about the curse of an evil shaman and the conflict between two families that continues across generations. This is not a dry travelogue but a highly entertaining drama filled with romance, jealousy, violence, and revenge. Filmed on location in Igloolik near the Arctic Circle, it is the first-ever film in the Inuktituk language and one that requires some effort by the viewer because of its length and strangeness. The film so completely captures a special world that, at the end, I was speechless -- unable to communicate in any language. The images kept reverberating in my mind a naked man running for his life over miles of ice with bleeding feet, the crunching of the boots on the ground, the dogsled rides through the snow, the head-punching ritual in an igloo, and the wondrous bluish light that saturates the screen. It is a cinema I hardly thought imaginable, one almost entirely without artifice, filmed in a pristine landscape of natural wonder.As the film opens, an evil spirit enters a small Inuit camp and helps Sauri, a member of the tribe, murder his father and assume the clan leadership. Years later, conflict arises between Sauri's son Oki (Peter-Henry Arnatsiaq) and the sons of Tulimaq, Amaqjuaag (Pakak Innukshuk), the oldest and Atanarjuat (Natar Ungalaaq), the faster runner. In the most memorable sequence of the film, after Oki kills his brother and sets out after him, Atanarjuat runs stark naked through the ice and snow looking for sanctuary. According to the director, You never forget that image of this naked man running on the ice. You wonder what's going through his head, and you never want to experience it. Atanarjuat, The Fast Runner pays tribute to a people heretofore seen only as stereotypes, showing us not only how they live and work and play but also how the spirit world plays an integral part in their daily lives. As a result, it is both a riveting piece of entertainment and an experience of the soul. Though it is a classic tale of good versus evil, the hero does not conform to our pictures. Our film, says producer Norman Cohn, is the antidote to the pathological heroism of the bloodiest century in history. Count the dead bodies piled up over the past 100 years, and look at the values that are being expressed in who's the good guy and who's the bad guy. Atanarjuat runs away from his enemy in fear of his life. When he comes back, it is in a spirit of reconciliation through forgiveness and love. John Wayne must be turning over in his grave. "},{"Title":"In need of an editor","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story is old and apparently significant for the Innuit community. As an introduction to that society, this is a good effort. But, reflecting the fact that Canada's National Film Board is behind the production, the result is stilted and preachy. There is some fine cinematography here, but it is overwhelmed by the lack of editing. One 2 minute scene of nothing but the barren North is appropriate; five of them is being unkind to the viewer. There is a valid, perhaps even important, 90 minute feature here, but it is wrapped up inside a porky product that takes nearly 3 hours to finish.  "},{"Title":"over rated","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After realizing the first hour was unnecessarily included in this film, I took a break from the utter boredom and read some reviews here in hopes of finding something that would convince me to watch the next hour. And I found plenty, but mostly from people who were intrigued by the Inuit culture. I had never heard of this culture but I figured what the heck. So I went ahead and watched the next hour, and while the one-at-a-time fight scenes were a bit intriguing, I remained pretty much bored. I understand the culture is a bit savage, but that still didn't hold my attention. It took a while before I found the energy to watch the final hour of this movie. It turned out interesting, but not super interesting.This movie was not meant to be a documentary, but the camera work reminds me of one. I think it would have been better if it were done as a documentary. I see lots of interesting documentaries about strange cultures on the Discovery channel, but this pseudo-doc bored me to sleep several times. They could've used a good editor to prevent spontaneous audience narcolepsy. I've seen better one hour documentaries about a cheetah catching a whatever-it-wants-to-eat dinner.One person who rated this more than 7 stars said The actors are astonishing, and it must have been so terribly cold up there, that you know this was a labor of love for the production team. The scenery is astonishing.A few other people made similar comments.But the truth is, the acting is border-line. Most of it is similar to cheesy Latino daytime soap operas. The scenery is hardly astonishing; it is mostly a blend of blue sky, snow, and boring small rocks. There is much better scenery in a documentary like Touch a Void.With some better editing, this film could be re-released, remove the boring stuff, and hit the nail on the head. Kinda like that scene where the two adjuncts hit each other on the head for a challenge.The subtitles could also use a bit of work too. Most of the captions are yellow on a white background. Not very easy to read. And they often linger for a brief moment, not giving you enough time to read them. And there is too much dialogue that doesn't even include captions. This could have been a very good documovie with better editing. Where are the next two thumbs up going to land? "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is so bad on so many scores I can only surmise that a PC need to be kind to the culture of Eskimos is behind the lavishment of praise. This Canadian film won all its country's honors? Let's not forget that Canada does not call its aboriginal peoples American (Canadian) Indians or Native Americans (Canadians), rather the PC numbingly (& ultimately meaningless) First Nations. Accordingly, the Eskimo culture has been re-termed Inuit, after 1 of several languages spoken in the Canadian Arctic- a bit of Inuit cultural imperialism, eh? I'll call an Eskimo an Eskimo- a term derived from yet another Native lingo. Do I say I live in the EU (Estados Unidos) because a Spaniard would associate that acronym with the USA, rather than the European Union? Did we call the USSR the CCCP? Of course not!&#133;. The characters are utterly clueless of any depth to life, the director has no sense of narrative nor editing skills, nor any ability to transcend stereotypes (just compare this dreck to the delightful Native American comedy of a few years back- Smoke Signals- with a strong script & well-developed characters by Sherman Alexie), the visuals are poorly constructed & dull, & the score is predictably laced with mind-numbingly obvious chants & gutturals. While not the worst film I've ever seen, given its indie-artsy buildup (generally more credible than flat-out Hollywood Oscar buzz), I have to term Atanarjuat The Fast Runner the most disappointing film in a very long time. About the only positive thing about Eskimo culture that can be discerned from this film is that they will not have to be subjected to it- at least not for a few more centuries! "},{"Title":"Greek tragedy meets Inuit culture","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first movie ever filmed entirely in Inuit has a slightly convoluted plot, focusing on treachery among a group of people in the Arctic. It had the feeling of a Greek tragedy or Shakespeare play, despite taking place in Greenland (or some place similar). Atanarjuat - meaning The Fast Runner - is most memorable for showing a culture that we don't usually get to see. A few months after I saw it, I went to college, and one of my friends there remembered the same scene that I did the man running naked across the ice.I should say that the end of the movie broke my concentration when they ran the credits and showed the crew. But for the most part, I found it to be a very impressive film. Definitely one that I recommend. "},{"Title":"The sublime North Atanarjuat The Fast Runner","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Forget its awards and honours, the Camera d'or from Cannes and that raft of Genies and a bagful of other festival citations. For now, there are only three things you need to know about Atanarjuat The Fast Runner (1) It is a superb film; (2) It is both intriguingly exotic and uniquely Canadian; (3) Although based on an ancient myth, and set on a distant shore a thousand years ago, it speaks eloquent volumes about the way we live now. The abiding myths are like that, of course, but few movies have managed to harness their timeless power -- this movie does.The setting is the far north, that white expanse embedded in today's consciousness as a totem of all that's virginal and solitary and silent, a romantic escape from the hubbub of modernity.Well, think again. Even at the dawn of the first millennium, the Inuit lived there, and they lived through a matrix of social and political tensions that will seem hauntingly familiar -- tensions that the subsequent centuries of apparent advances and creature comforts have done nothing to change or resolve.This enduring dialectic is the subject of the re-enacted myth. Actually, the filmmakers prefer the term relived, and with good reason. That's because, shooting on location with native actors talking in the Inuktitut language, director Zacharias Kunuk has contrived simultaneously to give the picture the realistic look of a documentary and the dream-like feel of a fable. So we're plunged directly into the daily minutiae of this other world -- its frozen geography and its igloo dwellings, its food and utensils and weapons and clothing, its little jokes and its chronic rigours. However, as the narrative gathers momentum, as the myth unfolds, its themes seep out of the recreated past and into our smug present.Certainly, the story's initial note will ring a bell. The first sequence depicts the fall of this icy Eden. If the opening appears a bit confusing, even disorienting, so be it -- what can be more perplexing than original sin? Or as the script (by the late Paul Apak Angilirq) puts it Evil came to us like death -- we never knew how it happened. Yes, evil -- a word that isn't exactly underemployed these days; and a concept that the myths of religion were invented to explain, and to control.The picture is mythic in content but never in presentation. These people aren't just icons in an old saga; they're living, breathing folks who belch and break wind, who giggle and flirt, who strut and posture and, between bites from a caribou steak, sing bawdy songs that embrace timely truths. (Sample lyric Even a big man can't bring home enough food/ If what's hanging between his legs gets too stiff.) This brand of realism is no accident. Instead, it's the long-practised method of Kunuk and his cinematographer Norman Cohn, who share an extensive background in video art, the slow-paced kind that emphasizes watching over telling. Alternating from sweeping panoramas to stark close-ups, from hunters mushing a sled over crevassed ice to a woman's gnarled hand holding a bone needle, their camera is keenly observant to both sights and sounds. It hears rhythms in the winter at its harshest (the incessant crack of footfalls on rock-hard snow); it sees beauty when the seasons change and the harshness briefly relents (a lone kayaker paddling over still waters glinting in the midnight sun).That's not to say these guys can't shift into a kinetic gear when action is called. In fact, they have the skill to animate cinematic clichs. There's a chase sequence here that's as good as any I've seen in a decade. And there's a ritualistic punch-up, black and bruised, that puts any studio western to shame. Also, as with every paradise-lost myth, the violence is paired with an ample helping of sex -- sometimes brutish, often loving and, on more than one occasion, wonderfully erotic.Naturally, a film with such a broad range demands a lot from its actors. They respond impeccably, professionals and amateurs alike. Natar Ungalaaq in the heroic title role, Pakkak Innukshuk as the resident villain, are both playing nicely rounded characters -- the one has his flaws, the other has his merits, and the performances reflect these duelling sides of the moral equation. With her flashing smile, Lucy Tulugarjuk is a delightfully designing woman, the kind of born drama queen who can somehow make even the most selfish act seem ingenuous. Finally, poignantly, Sylvia Ivalu weeps real tears as the beleaguered wife, streaming rivulets that bisect the tattooed lines on her swollen cheeks.Too often, our Western response to aboriginal culture carries a strong whiff of the sentimental, of the patronizing and the politically correct. But Atanarjuat steadfastly resists that. Rather, it demands both to be heard in its own voice and to be appreciated on its own terms -- not as a quaint native artifact, but as a damn fine and a truly distinctive and a deeply pertinent film.That pertinence is no more apparent than during the resolution, where the myth offers up its answer to the troubling riddle of evil. Only when the Fast Runnner slows down can he reach, and understand, his epiphany. Significantly, it comes before the practical matters -- and this is a practical society -- of meting out punishment and tempering justice with mercy. More important still, it comes from a man wielding power at the business end of a knife, and it wells up as a cry from the depths of his anguished heart. Bold, brave, direct, decisive, the cry doubles as an assertion, cutting through the clamour of the centuries and their cycles of violence, cutting through all the unholy dins in all the holy lands. Shouted in an ancient tongue, his four words speak to every age, none more forcibly than our own THE KILLING STOPS HERE. Benjamin Miller, Filmbay Editor. "},{"Title":"A Fine Arctic legend, but not the first to be filmed","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Several reviewers see this native legend as Documentary as a genre worth pursuing. Prior art exists however, as the probable prototype of the genre is a film by Nils Gaup called 'The Pathfinder' (1987) aka 'Ofelas', about a Shamanic legend of the Sami people, in Arctic Scandinavia. Perhaps the appearance of Atanarjuat will rekindle interest, and hopefully, hopefully, fingers crossed, stimulate the production of the long-awaited DVD of The Pathfinder. The two can then be compared side by side as to customs and costume, but in particular as to the outstanding difference in the environments where the two peoples carried out their livelihoods the hyperborean forests and mountains in the case of the Sami, and the winter pack ice where the Inuit stamp their unique culture.After these two fine films, a story about the Chukchi in Northern Siberia would then nicely complete the set. "},{"Title":"Seriously flawed, but ultimately worth watching","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm just chiming in with so many others commenting on this movie  At first, the story is a bit muddled, though this does significantly improve.  The acting starts out pretty spotty and gets only a little better.  The camera work is not very good.  The editing ranges from flashes of smart stuff to errors in indulgence that could add up to 20 minutes of unnecessary running time (if you'll pardon the expression!).But there are a couple of gems revealed toward the end of the movie; that the problem of evil remains deep at the often unexplored core of our beings, as well as in practical, everyday consciousness, and that love triumphs over evil.  The gentleness and wisdom shown at movie's end sort of surprised me!So it's your call whether to watch this movie or not.  In the end, part of the payoff for me was that a movie that started off on the wrong foot wound up surprising me.  If that doesn't sound like a payoff to you, you're probably right!It's also a little spooky that I saw this movie right after finishing off Jung et.al.'s Man and His Symbols.  Synchronistic, baby.  "},{"Title":"Cold fuzzies","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It finally sunk in that this was a film, not a documentary. The acting and story were incredible and well portrayed.  Atanarjuat is a good way to learn about Inuit culture and traditional way of life. I loved it.  Watching the movie also helps you figure out how to pronounce the title. "},{"Title":"A bit longish but mostly fantastic","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great film , unlike anything I've ever seen.  The acting, camera work, direction, costumes and sound are all top-notch.   Only two very minor complaints it's a bit long and the beginning is pretty confusing, though if you're paying attention you'll sort it out.  Besides being entertaining, Atanarjuat is a great learning experience about Inuit culture.  Based on the location and beauty of the cinematography alone this movie should win the Oscar for foreign film. I hope the people behind this get a chance to make another one, maybe something more modern.  I'll keep my fingers crossed! "}{"Title":"Immediate classic","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Surreal epic of an Inuit myth that is as far removed from the mainstream lowest common denominator films as one could get. The ethics and morals of ancient Inuits are impressive and surprising in this superbly made movie. The far north scenery adds to the otherworldliness of the picture. Scenes in the igloo ring authentic and powerful. The three hours rush by and no one gets up to leave until after the credits. Well worth the time for the discerning viewer.  "},{"Title":"the legend was probably more entertaining when told by an inuit grandmother","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the film is basically the most appreciated tale of the inuits of the region of Iglolik and further. The film is refreshing, and very interesting anthropologistically (?) wise. Sometimes it's a little long, but it's a nice and interesting story. Don't get excited about it like you might have been for Baraka, the land in north canada is flat forever and white almost always. "},{"Title":"Drink coffee before, Eat after, and Pay Attention!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I knew I was in for 172 minutes of spare dialog, sparse surroundings, and characters with unpronouncable names all bundled up in sealskin and fur. So I got stoked on caffeine and sat down front and let the atmosphere surround me.This is not a film for everyone(make that most people).  It requires that you pay attention to an archetypal story of fable, love, revenge, danger, and triumph.  There is very little that is special about the story itself, the character development is as primitive as the clan and their customs. The landscape is bleak, there is little in the way of a soundtrack, and it took me 30 minutes to figure out what I thought was going on. Surprisingly, with all of these ingredients for tedium, this film transcends most others.I have never seen a film like it before.  That alone makes it one of my favorite films.There is no need to encapsulate the film any further, nor wax hyperbolic about the craft exhibited in its writing, cinematography, or direction. You only get product like this from people who are apart from the mainstream. People who heard the story and the idea, and believed that the film had to be made.  (This is one film that will not work with six degrees of Kevin Bacon.  Go ahead, click on the cast and crew names)It helps a lot if you read the story line before seeing it.  The first scenes of the film represent the entering of evil into their world, and can be a little confusing.  The actors are all bundled up, so it can be difficult at first to tell who is who. Plus the story jumps a generation without warning, so pay attention to the unique names.  The matter-of-fact discussions about reincarnation were refreshing.  This is an old story that could be placed at any time in the past or future.  To see it told in such a setting was a real treat.  It made me see the timelessness of our and our ancestors lives.This is a film worth preparing for.  Eat afterward (you'll have much to discuss), drink some coffee (pee before you go in, none of it is to be missed), and become rapt. "},{"Title":"Intriguing film","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let's not be fooled here. This movie is not really worthy of the praise made in this site by other users and some critics, but I can't say it is a bad movie either.The movie is strenuous and the three hours can be felt very much. The digital camera produces mixed results in what comes to cinematography with some really bad shots and other really quite surprisingly beautiful ones.The story is a bit complicated for us to understand, being spoken in a very unintelligible language and with the names of the characters appearing so weird to western eyes. But I wouldn't advocate the movie being spoken in any other way because it would destroy its charm, and it is a handicap that the audience simply will have to understand and forgive.I imagine this movie being really great when you're in a weird mood and ready to embrace its other-worldness, but is you're not then you're just gonna get a really boring film. "},{"Title":"Amateur effort, but not totally without merit","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't realize that this movie was three hours long until I looked it up on this site.  I guess that is a compliment to the movie in a way.  My husband and I sat through it last night, and couldn't stop watching it.  It has the look of something filmed on someone's handheld video recorder.  Sometimes funny (unintentionally) sometimes fascinating (in a weirdly compelling way) and sometimes just plain bad.  But it has a compelling quality that makes you want to watch it.  The woman who plays the fast runner's wife is beautiful in a calm, almost madonna-like way.  The guy that played the runner was very good also, loveable and cute, sort of.  And give the guy credit, running across the snow naked...I hope they paid him something for doing that!But first, this movie would have been much better with some sort of narration, or setup for the beginning.  I had a hard time following what was supposed to be happening.  Narration throughout would have been helpfulAlso, it was hard to follow the names on the screen.  I can tell you the names of exactly three characters Oki, Puja and Sauri.  The rest of them had long multi-syllabic names that I couldn't tell you if you put a gun to my head.Overall, a pretty strange movie, but I have to say, I found that it was a more enjoyable three hours than The Two Towers! "},{"Title":"Here's your Minority Report","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This ' astonishing epic' - 2 hours and 45 minutes long - tale presents a timeless tale -this could have been set any time in the last millennium, I suppose- of several generations of interdependent tribal members.  Perhaps this can be considered an Inuit action film for these Eskimos, life on the edge is their encampments bordering the glacier with long nights not offering much distraction beyond storytelling and scraping meat off sealskins with a dull blade.This film is a lot like watching permafrost melting it seems like it's never going to end. But it does turn out to be a morality tale with good, evil and ennui all represented.Maybe I just wasn't in the mood.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating, although flawed","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are two ways to view this movie (1) with a curious mind or (2) with a critical eye.If you choose the first way, you will be treated to a lush and fascinating telling of an ancient legend of the battle between good and evil. It is filled with indelible images and people you really care about. I was completely absorbed in the story and the story telling, and felt privileged to have a glimpse at a way of life which in so many ways is so totally alien, and yet so similar.If you choose the second way, you'll find the movie slow and poorly directed, with awkward pauses and gaps during which you can almost hear the director yell 'cut.' The acting is not professional (which isn't always a bad thing, but it is noticeable) and the editing needs a great deal of tightening.Luckily, I managed to keep my normally critical eye in check and my curious mind won out. For me, the movie was a real gem and I think it will be a long time before I forget it or even stop thinking about it. "},{"Title":"A Sterling Effort, but....","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being a Canadian myself and watching this film in Australia really can help open one's eyes and mind to the sheer differences and similarities in cultures. There are many things that when perceived can separate us as a species. Through different climates people develop different traditions and behaviours that to people foreign to that environment will find different and equate that difference to wrong or inferior to trump up their own system of traditions and behaviours. Where the Fast Runner shines is in it depiction of Inuit life (not being an inuit myself or claiming to have witnessed Inuit life first hand I must take the liberty in believing that what the camera reveals is as close to reality as it can be with all things considered). Now the first thing that struck me when I was reading the film details on IMDb was the issue about cruelty to animals. Yes I did too see the dog kicking and punching and the many seal and caribou carcasses being heaved around the set but the film was set 1,000 years past and considering the budget this film was made that an animatronic or puppet dog could not be funded to save an animal from being beaten. Now this is where things are get all conservative activist-type nonsense that we are in dire need to reduce before we drown ourselves in things we should not do. Yes a dog was hit and perhaps mildly injured, but a dog can perfectly well hurt itself playing and fighting with other dogs. A few slaps from a master to show their evil inherent nature or just in training of the animal should be expected and the insignificant amount of pain that animal receives is ridiculous for members of our society to get all bent out of shape over. I am surprised I haven't read a comment about the scene where one of the sled dogs got tangled up in the tow lines of a sled and yelped during the entire shot of the Fast Runner returning to his original camp. This scene seemed much more painful than than the kicks and slaps and was entirely unintentional and can happen in reality very often. I just find it very sad that people will get all worked up over violence to animals in film when the violence is very minimal. Yes if the animal were tortured and killed for just for the sake of a shot and for pleasure, then there is truly something wrong that needs to be corrected. And the seal and caribou meat is a whole different issue. If the animal is killed and eaten, then its purpose has been served and it's life was not wasted. I just don't understand how we can live in a world where people will fight for the rights of animals on film, but may be the very same people stepping over the homeless on their walks through downtown. There are much bigger issues to be addressing and correcting before we start attacking the minimal inicidents that occur in areas such as film. Anyways, enough of that rant. The Fast Runner has a strong merit and attempts to reveal a basic human story that is formed from the basis of primal story telling. Sex and Power, with Western influences it has become the trilogy of Sex, Money and Power. No truly excellent story can be told without at least one of these elements because these are at the core of the human condition. The Fast Runner has both of the first set of elements, yet the story telling and narrative is disjointed and loses itself in its depiction of Inuit life. The audience forgets the evil Shaman at the beginning of the film and in many cases doesn't understand that there was a Shaman, then later the audience gets confused of Puja's character and role in the story and gets lost with the stream of events that follow.Ultimately this film is a valiant effort and has much to offer, I can say I enjoyed it on a number of cultural levels, but in terms of story telling and filming, it is far from excellent.  "},{"Title":"The Big Chill","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  More often than not, these small foreign productions are real gems. I could name about half a dozen. Unfortunately, this film falls far short of what it could have been.The intent, is to bring an Inuit legend to life. Indeed, you are given a mirror to see the graphically beautiful time of pre-Columbian Inuit; their fears, loves, emotions and rivalries who live on the harsh edge of our ecosystem. They are us, and we are them. You will not escape seeing the reflection, I promise. The film excels on this facet.Zacharias Kunuk understood vista and color. Although I've read he used digital format, his method is simple and beautiful. Wide panorama with a pallet of two or three colors. Sky, water and earth; the basic alchemy of great cinema art.  This facet, too, is brilliant.The flaws are in editing. After the introduction, skip the next hour. You won't miss a heck of a lot. (Mostly eating, skinning hides, pushing, shoving, fighting etc, etc.) The legend will then pick up, but still, is too, too slow and disjointed. Had the editing and production been better planned, it could have made a world, and I mean a world, of difference.There are no notable performances; the acting is good, and I really don't think that anyone was out to win an academy award for this, but rather, to do honor to the Inuit people.One note, Lucy Tulugarjuk (Puja), was a mismatch for her sinister part. She adorably cute and grinning, no matter if she's watching a fight, crying, begging, distraught or sinister. One can't help but like her.See this, and glimpse the lives of the Inuit, but don't worry about missing a scene or two.  "},{"Title":"Good Intentions","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though it's impossible to criticize something as noble as a film made by and about the Inuit tribe of the Arctic Canadian Nunavut territory, the major beneficiaries stand to be anthropology majors; the rest of us will appreciate, but not necessarily exult over, this telling of an Inuit myth that goes on about two and three-quarters hours. Shot in digital video, which lends an authoritative immediacy to a bleak, barren, dangerous landscape, the film tells an ancient story of a feud between two tribal families; when one man is murdered by a hothead spurred by jealousy and shame, his gentle brother is forced to seek revenge. There's plenty to admire about the Inuit people's perseverance in such adverse conditions and the performers certainly act with heartfelt sincerity but it's hard to see the film as more than a curiosity. Still, it's worth seeing once, if only because of its uniqueness. The director is Zacharias Kunuk; he seems to have no discernible talent but plenty of good intentions.      "}{"Title":"(To The Tune of Rawhide) Running running running, running running running","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And so on and on and on.  What a wonderful look into the Inuit way of life. It borders on being pre-historic.  But three hours, now way.  I believe my 7 year old granddaughter made up the english subtitles.Hopefully there will not be a Fast Runner Returns. "},{"Title":"More noble than interesting. More interesting than entertaining.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Fast Runner is a pedestrian story of treachery among a tribe of primitive natives - in this case the Inuits of the arctic region of Canada. On the upside the film has an abundance of raw Spartan arctic beauty; haunting music and percussion; real native actors speaking what is presumably the Inuit tongue; and a fascinating sense of authenticity. On the downside, the film is viscous, long,  esoteric, difficult to follow, and plays better as a documentary with the thin story of murder and deceit among peaceful people being buried under ice and snow as we watch the Inuit's simple day-to-day survival tasks and never see the more interesting activities such as a caribou hunt.  In short, the film doesn't work well as either a drama or a documentary though it seems to try to straddle both. Possible target audiences? Subscribers to National Geographic. (B) "},{"Title":"Brrrrrrrrrrrrr","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very different kind of film about the Inuit, who we very seldom hear from, but they are a race of proud and nomadic people.The film is much too long. Sometimes it is very hard to watch. Perhaps with a firmer hand, it could have been trimmed to make a more compelling and spellbinding movie.The director, Zacharias Kunuk presents us with very human situations that are universal. It's very interesting to watch that all evils of our society are present among this group of people as well.The chase scenes are incredible. One wonders how they could Atanarjuat could have survived the elements. All in all, this film is an eye opener as how can these primitive people survive under the worst possible circumstances. "},{"Title":"Brought a good book","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  and didn't read it. Though if the movie were filmed in English I would have been asleep before cracking the first page.It is long, and people did stay seated, though I noticed several of them had to be nudged by their neighbours, or by theatre staff.The scenery in the movie is expansive, but not terribly impressive. The acting is acceptable, even commendable for so many amatuers. The direction is strong and un-noticed. They even manage to cover tracks and trails properly leaving the wilderness looking as it should.The only things I can think of, is that it would have been a much more interesting tale to hear an ancestor tell, than to watch on screen. And it would have taken a sixth as long to tell.Watch it, but bring quarters for the video games in the lobby, you might want them. "},{"Title":"Overrated and above all, BORING   (*1/2)","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   This is the first film ever shot entirely in Inuktitut, the language of the Inuit people of the Arctic Circle. It focuses intimately on a rich culture that is unfamiliar to most movie-goers. It's a nearly 3-hour epic, based on a 1000 year-old folk legend.In other words, it's the kind of movie that practically arrives with raves from critics already attached. Usually that kind of hype is worth it, and based on the first paragraph up there, The Fast Runner (Atanarjuat) sounds like a damn good movie. I wish I could hop on the bandwagon with all the other critics, but unfortunately, in spite of all it has going for it, this movie was not very good.The story involves two brothers (one very strong and the other very fast), a love triangle and something about an evil force invading their tribe. I say something, because this whole part of the story is extremely muddled. Or I might have just missed something one of the many times I nearly dozed off.There are good things in the movie. There is strength in the acting, particularly in the performance of Sylvia Ivalu as Atuat, Atanarjuat's first wife. It was also shot in digital video, which gives it a stark, vibrant look and there is some beautiful scenery.But none of this could hide the fact that I was truly bored out of my mind. I like to think of myself as having a very good attention span, but this nearly 3-hour movie truly felt more like 10 hours.It's an important, earnest and honorable movie, and has a few isolated moments of extreme power, but it's not worth slogging through 2 1/2 hours of utter tedium (and occasional silliness) to see the 20 minutes of good stuff.I can respect this film for what it represents as an accomplishment. But did I enjoy it? Many have, apparently, but for the most part I did not.  "},{"Title":"Home movies","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well I've read the other comments, even checked out Roger Ebert, trying to find the reason for all the praise some people give it, but I can't get it. A story of people fighting with each other, murdering each other, commiting adultery, and worst of all mistreating the dogs that are essential for their survival, among the incessant crunching of snow under boots. This has to be considered a home movie and it leaves a lousy opinion of the Inuit people, which I know can't be this bad. Ebert says it involves somes legend, what that is I don't know. "},{"Title":"Vice On The Ice","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great. Another wunnerful Canadian film for the cognescenti and literati to gush and chortle over as they sip their Perriers and double lattes at the latest trendy film festival. Dahling... Didn't you think the message was so, well, messagy. It's too long. What could have been done in two hours mushes and slushes on for almost three. I still don't know what it was all about despite the helpful explanatory subtitles on the DVD. And although creative lens flare can be a useful technique, there is so much of it here that it looks like simply slovenly photography. But weren't we daring with that full frontally nude chase across the ice for ten minutes or so. I was impressed that neither the poor actor nor his willie didn't freeze solid! As a dutiful Canadian, I forced myself to watch this eternity of people humping and hunting each other across the ice. But I hated it. Hate! Hate! Hate! Why do we insist on making movies in this country? We're much better at wine and whiskey. And if you can't be dissuaded from enduring this frozen turkey, I suggest you keep an ample supply of both on hand for your three hour ordeal. "},{"Title":"Too slow to catch a cold","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, there must be a lot of pretentious people out there and several of them recommended this film to us.  We simply couldn't fathom it.  I am happy to accept that it is very hard to film in those frozen climbs and that this film might be deeply meaningful to Inuit people.  Here in the UK, it was a hollow experience and we were unable to stick the 3 hours plus.  Thank goodness we had waited for its TV viewing so we could fast forward the video. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I go to see a movie for two reasons; to laugh or to be absorbed in an adventure. This movie was both boring, disturbing and hard to understand (not even counting the subtitles). Both my wife and I had the same reaction and after 20 minutes stopped the dvd player. Basically the plot had to do with eskimos being cruel to each other in the worst crass ways. In one instance a family is given the meat from the butt of a seal by the tribe because the hunter was unsuccessful that day. While they're eating the other eskimos taunt the whole family. What a downer. Save your money and don't waste your time.  "}]