[{"Title":"Sayles again in top form!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Sayles is without a doubt one of the best writer/directors making films today and even though he doesn't get the backing and respect of Hollywood studio executives the actors in the business all know he's one of the best. Sayles doesn't give in to what the unsophisticated audiences of today expect. He keeps things honest and all of his work is based on personal choices. Like in most of his other films here we see multiple characters all surrounding one event. Here its the story of a resort town that is going to be taken over by a giant company and where most business's and residences will have to leave. One angle has Eunice Stokes (Mary Alice) living in a house that she has lived in for a number of years and she's proud because the house represents being elevated to middle class. Her daughter Desiree Perry (Angela Bassett) is an actress in the Boston area and she is coming to visit with her husband. While Desiree is there, she meets up with an old boyfriend Flash (Tom Wright) who had gotten her pregnant when she was 15. Another part of the film has Marly Temple (Edie Falco) who works with her father Furman (Ralph Waite) at the motel/restaurant that he owns. Marly meets Jack Meadows (Timothy Hutton) who is an architect and scouting the land. A romance blossoms between the two and its a clash of individual ideals. Marly hates working for her father and has become disillusioned and angry as life is passing her buy. Sayles complex script lets the viewer go from character to character and we become understanding of their complexities. The film shows how the characters who left the island went on to a better life and the ones who stayed have to deal with how life is changing all around them until it has finally found them. Its so refreshing to see Bassett in a good role. She's not cast as the girlfriend or some throw away supporting role, its a well written part that shows she is a terrific actress. Falco also shows that she can handle other characters and when The Sopranos is over she can step into any other role with ease. Well made and extremely well written, this is another interesting film to add onto Sayles growing resume of fine films.  "},{"Title":"Excellent study of human nature","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of those movies which goes nowhere with elegance. It touches on all the basic concerns of humanity love, race, age, parents, and real estate. More than that, it handles all of them with honesty and kindness.This movie should be watched late at night when the mind no longer knows where it wants to go. You can let it drift over you like a soft summer breeze. Hopefully in that state you will accept the fact that there is really no graceful resolutions or summations in life, just a review of how we dealt with all the little things which seemed so large at the time. The selection of actors for the movie also reflects the tone. Many very good artists who are drawn from television rather than the box office are able to use this vehicle to show us what they are really capable of.  "},{"Title":"The heat in the Sunshine State.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Sayles' films are always interesting. He provokes his audiences to think about what he shows on the screen. This is his latest attempt to draw our attention to the perils of overdevelopment in Florida by unscrupulous people who have nothing invested in the areas where they go to disrupt the lives of different communities, like the one presented in the film. Unfortunately, nothing changes for the better. In many cases it only brings unwanted growth, crime, tackiness in the name of progress. There are very old towns in the Sunshine State that are targeted to be sold by the locals in power as it's the case with the fictional Delrona Beach who, no doubt, are in cahoots with the developers.  We can't help but wonder why would anyone in the right mind would go along with those who want to transform these laid back little towns on both Florida coasts and change them into the boring gated communities and condos that dot the landscape. The Greek Chorus led by Alan King and cronies are incredibly on target. They couldn't care less what was there before as long as they can golf every day in the immaculate courses created for their pleasure. Edie Falco is a revelation in this film. She's the one that goes in and out of the different groups with a sense of belonging to the town, obviously not making a very lucrative living out of a beach motel that has seen better days. Even though she has left the town for her own reasons she has come back to run the family business. Angela Bassett is the prodigal daughter who comes back to face her past and have a confrontation with her mother. Mary Alice plays her role of the mother with such dignity that we see right through this mother the hurt and disappointment her daughter has caused in her life. It's a joy to see both of these actresses play their parts in such a restrained manner. There are no hysterics between them, just the bitterness caused by events fate has dealt them. The rest of the cast is wonderful. Mary Steenburgen, Ralph Waite, Jane Alexander, Bill Cobbs are all perfectly cast for their roles. Again, Mr. Sayles has given us a slice of life, and in doing so, he has tackled the task with great panache. "},{"Title":"Another precise picture of Americana by one the our best screenwriters.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This view of community and change in a small Florida beach community is another incisive look at American standards by a broadminded, experienced filmmaker.  It's as solid an ensemble piece as one could want, with enough humor, insight and local color to be another enlightening look at American values by an expert chronicler of such things.  The many reviewers who seem to find it tedious should probably re-analyze it as an allegory of the average American experience.  Another exemplary work by John Sayles.  "},{"Title":"Shines Brightly","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting, multi-faceted story of the lives of folks on Florida's   Plantation Island. Many compelling characters populate this film some   sad, some funny, all very real. Great cast includes Edie Falco   (The Sopranos), Angela Bassett, Timothy Hutton, James McDaniel, Alan   King and Mary Steenburgen. Writer/director John Sayles seems (in my   view) incapable of making a bad film. As with all filmmakers, some are   better than others. This one falls somewhere in the middle. Sayles has   made such excellent films in the past Eight Men Out, Matewan, Lone   Star, and Limbo (to name a few), that when he simply makes a good film   it can somehow seem a bit disappointing. Certainly not for all tastes,   Sunshine State impressed me, and I give it a 4 (out of 5). "},{"Title":"This film tries to handle too many situations","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a great film. It could have been a great character study. Instead it tries to handle too many characters and subplots and not really delving into any one too deeply. In the end I really didn't care about any of the characters because I didn't really know any of them that well.The writing was good. It would have been better to write about just a few of the characters rather than to try and write about the entire population of Florida.Production values were excellant.Most of the actors were good.Bottom line Only go to see this movie if you don't have anything else planned. "},{"Title":"If it sounds like Altman, and it looks like Altman...","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (2002/John Sayles) ***1/2 out of ****In the beginning.....there was nothing.Small towns are often used as the backdrop for many films, but seldom is the concept often explored. Sunshine State, like many other films that tackle the concept, offers a slice of life into the world of the people who inhabit a small town, which is, in this case, a beach front town in Northern Florida.Plantation Island is a picturesque small town. It's residents include many people ranging from different races, including whites, blacks, and Native Americans. But it goes a little deeper. Some of the characters are native to the area, some are just visiting. Edie Falco plays a down-to-earth motel owner, Timothy Hutton plays a land developer, Angela Bassett plays a woman who has just returned to the island after having left when she was 15, and Bill Cobbs plays a retired doctor who doesn't like where the future of the town is going. Throw in a couple of philosophical golf players, and there you have the island of Plantation. This film has Robert Altman stamped all over it. And that's basically what it is a toned down mosaic of Floridians, that looks like it was done by Robert Altman himself. This is a very good movie, with deep characters and a story with multiple layers. But the story and scenery can't make up for the periodic lulls here and there. All in all, an above average film that is worth a look.-30-  "},{"Title":"sorry to be in a minority folks but i thought this was a complete bore!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the kind of film you hear critics saying what a wonderful effort from john sayles; a maverick fimmaker who constantly strives to make films away from mainstream hollywood and then like your humble narrator you get to see it during it's limited u.k. cinema release. you then hope you leave the flea pit afterwards saying 'brilliant', 'marvellous' and 'decidedly delightful' when you really think it's 'boring', 'overlong' and 'self indulgent'. that's not to say john sayles is a mediocre talent. 'lone star' and 'passion fish' are very good examples of his craft but i nearly fell asleep with me eyes open watching this load of cobblers and half the time i found meself struggling to keep up with anything the actors were saying. the story seemed feeble and uninvolving; something about property developers trying to muscle into a florida community with a medley group of characters meeting other characters who in turn all have their own agenda. how bland and unexciting!  "},{"Title":"Don't Expect a Good Movie","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I understand that people have different expectations of low-budget, arthouse movies.  I also know that John Sayles has a sort of glow about him, that earthy, intellectual anti-hollywood vibe, a la Tim Robbins, the Coen brothers and Atom Egoyan, that makes him a darling with the critics from the get-go.But this is not a good movie.  I'm sorry, it just isn't.It meanders.  It has too many characters.  Its tone is uneven, its point of view is muddled, the acting is all over the board, from naturalistic to over the top.  It lingers for long moments with minor characters we don't care about and cuts away from tense scenes just when things are getting good.It misses the mark.The worst flaw in the movie is that the two closest things to a protagonist, Edie Falco's Marly and Angela Bassett's Desiree, are straight-jacketed in characters that have no drive.  Marly is an apathetic drunk, steeped in her life's own inertia.  Desiree is a woman trapped in her own repressed pain.  When your two main characters' world-views can be summed up with the phrases I don't care and I want to leave here, why should the audience give a rat's patootie?I'll be plain  Sayles writes funny dialogue.  He's very adept at crafting a scene.  The problem is, these scenes don't go anywhere.  There's no spine to the movie.  No drive.  The movie doesn't create rooting interest in any of the characters.  In my opinion, he's also too preachy about big bad corporate America gobbling up the little guy.  If you want to see a quality small movie, see David Lynch's Straight Story.  Pass this one up. "},{"Title":"Not a lot of happy people in the sunshine state.","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's way too many plots in this drama about a beach community threatened by developers who want to buy up all the property to put in luxury hotels and get the residents out as cheaply as possible. The bulk of the plots surround motel owner Edie Falco who doesn't want to sell out and the return of former resident Angela Bassett to visit her mother (the delightful Mary Alice) after years of estrangement. Falco befriends one of the developers who slowly begins to see things from her perspective, while Bassett confronts her past after having left because of a teenage pregnancy. Now the aging mother is taking care of a distant teenaged relative who seems to have pyromaniac tendencies and also confronts the former athlete who left her pregnant.Smaller story lines show the weariness of seemingly cheerful community leader Mary Steenburgen who organizes a community fair (and whose husband seems to be embezzling money) and Falco's actress/teacher mother (Jane Alexander) who takes on the young black teen as part of his community service. Like many recent films that have a slice of life atmosphere, this is a movie about moments, not plot, and is well acted, yet far too overlong.Alan King plays a Greek chorus like commentator who makes wry statements while playing golf. His presence is filled with irony and intelligently written, but at times, he seems like he's a part of another film. As directed by John Sayles, the film has some strong points to make, but it is mixed in with a lot of gobbli-gook that seems trite and unnecessary to the film overall as a whole. When Bassett is on, the film shines (she is both breathtakingly beautiful and filled with inner-beauty), and stage veteran Mary Alice gives the indication that her character is not as fragile as she seems or as one-dimensionally nice. That there's more to her than meets the eye quality makes her quite unforgettable, much like Cicely Tyson's recent role of the aging lady in Broadway's A Trip to Bountiful. I wanted to see more of Steenburgen and get some insight to her character, but with an all-star cast like this, somebody had to be tossed to the wayside. Ralph Waite (The Waltons) has some nice moments as Alexander's husband and Falco's father, especially in an exchange with young Alex Lewis once he delivers the coffin he made for Alexander's play. "}{"Title":"Capitalist forces against local tradition","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love the work of John Sayles. But not this one. First of all, the directing is not worthy of his talent. The directing shows very much where the sympathy is. Sayles does not have the courage to contrast the good with a strong and likable bad force. The bad is bad and the good is good. That is the first flaw of an uninteresting movie. The screenplay is another problem. First of all, I like the concept of multiple protagonists. But the problem here is that the diversities that divide the characters do not seem to be that dividing. The first act gives us a taste of what is the matter and I accept that. But during the second act and in the second act climax every problem evaporates into nothing. What the characters experience is not the labyrinth of Theseus, but a paper thin wall. Once the breakthrough is done, the bricks fall like scattered by the wind. Do not get me wrong, I have seen a lot of movies that do not reach this to its knees, but we are talking about John Sayles. This movie, I would not kill to see again. "},{"Title":"I used to be a John Sayles fan.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lone Star was great. I didn't even mind the ending to Limbo, but Sunshine State has done me in. His all star cast looks like they're in a high-school production. Every line of dialogue rings hollow. When the characters aren't giving speeches, they overact on emotional levels that simply seem contrived. And of course the story goes nowhere. Sorry John, I'm through with you.  "},{"Title":"Have your remote ready...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... the fast forward button is definitely your friend on this one. This is basically a good story with some interesting characters, but most of the scenes are waayy tooo loooong! The plot revolves around the struggle between greedy developers and the good folks of Plantation Island, Fl. Of course we get the standard weaving of personal struggles into the bigger story line, and this is where this picture fails. Many of these sub-plots go on forever and are never resolved. It's almost like the director decided after 2 1/2 hours gee I guess I better end the movie now. This film features many very good, well known actors (Edie Falco, Gordon Clapp, Mary Steenburgen, just to name a few), and they all do a excellent jobs, given the overall weakness of the script. I give this movie a 5/10. "},{"Title":"I thought it would never end","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie that goes nowhere, is static and didactic and completely boring, this is the one. Maybe one scene works when Desiree confronts the woman who was her rival when they were teenagers. Charlayne Woodard is good in her cameo. Otherwise be prepared for windy rhetorizing in the Florida heat. "},{"Title":"Great actors, noble intentions, lousy movie","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SUNSHINE STATE is about Big Ideas.  Grief, it even has a Greek chorus to comment on the action- how's that for being self-important!  But since these ideas are delivered in such a heavy-handed way, it's oddly like watching a pageant put on by a civics class at Beverly Hills High School.The story deals with a small town in Florida where real-estate developers are threatening to change the way of life.  Other than the beach, the town doesn't have much going for it.  Characters talk a lot about how they either got out or wish they had gotten out.  There's a local pirate festival that nobody but the stressed-out lady who's ramrodding it seems to care about.  But for some reason this mosquito infested area is supposed to inspire developers to want to spend wads and wads of money turning it into a hot tourist spot.Out of respect for the actors, I didn't name any names.  Sigh. If this had been done on Broadway it would have closed opening night and been forgotten.  But that's the curse/blessing of film.  SUNSHINE STATE will be around to haunt these good people for the rest of their careers.  Between cable, tape, dvd's and whatever the future may bring, they'll have to explain to their grandchildren why they bet on a dead horse like this.  Now THAT would make an interesting movie.  "},{"Title":"Wake me up, please","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, I rented this and fell asleep about five times.  Had to keep rewinding to keep up on what was going on, but then again that wasn't much, which is why I kept falling asleep to begin with.The only interesting part was seeing if Edie Falco could carry off a cracker accent and the answer is sort of.I gave this a 3.Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"SUNSHINE Too Cloudy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With SUNSHINE STATE, John Sayles has created a completely self indulgent film - writing, directing AND editing the project and (apparently) without the sense to know when enough is enough.  It takes real genious to know when to get off.  This film has too much of everything - too many characters, too many scenes, too many stories, too many characters - all leaving us with too much unsaid, too much unexplored, and scenes that go on way too long. Mary Alice smiles as if she knows the secret to the universe (but won't tell us); Tim Hutton proves he should have done more films when he was younger (and cuter); Edie Falco stares numbly into space wondering why she isn't back in New Jersey making lasagna; Mary Steenburgen reprises her faded southern belle from MISS FIRECRACKER; Ralph Waite bellows like a beached King Lear; Charlayne Woodard is wasted in a tiny cameo.  Only Angela Bassett and Bill Cobbs make any sense of their roles.  John Sayles - know thy limits. "},{"Title":"A much better movie could have been made given the subject material...","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I live in the town of Fernandina Beach on Amelia Island which is located in Northeastern Florida.  This was also the filming location and subject of the fictional Plantation Island in the recent John Sayles film Sunshine State. So, the primary reason I even entered the theater to see this movie was to get a glimpse of familiar buildings and to see how my little town was portrayed on the big screen.During the course of the movie I must have checked my digital watch no less than five times, not a good sign.  At about two and a half hours, this movie seems to go on (and go nowhere) forever!Edie Falco, best known as the mother on the popular HBO series The Sopranos, plays Marly the apathetic motel operator who wishes for a better life. Despite her sporadic Southern accent, Falco delivers a decent performance. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for Angela Bassett who moves through the movie delivering her lines like a robot.The plot is essentially a web of about 10 semi-connected characters bouncing around with their own personal agendas.  In the somewhat predictable final chapter of this movie, only about half of the sub-plots are even resolved. The remaining plotlines are simply left dangling without needed closure, perhaps the filmmakers ran out of money and had to cease shooting.  That theory could also be supported by what seemed like some of the worst editing and overall film quality that I've seen in quite some time.In short, Sunshine State is a dull, dry, low-budget film with poorly written dialogue and weak acting.  I would suggest that anyone looking for something interesting to watch  should avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Oddly Flat Performances Level Interesting Story","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an unusually interesting story about important and relevant issues as one would expect from John Sayles. But somehow his direction flattened everyone's performance to a dull gray -- quite a feat since the stellar cast is full of actors who can deliver a wallop. It's as if someone (Sayles?) told them to Just read the words and don't mess up the screenplay and had them watch old Dragnet episodes to capture the style. It could have easily lost a good 15 minutes to pick up the pace as well. Almost every shot lingered a moment or two beyond its natural lifespan. Perhaps writer/Director Sayles got so caught up in his vision, he discounted the living, breathing talent of his real life cast. The result is extremely frustrating. "},{"Title":"The underlying message is to preserve Florida's fast-disappearing seascape.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Real estate developers come to a sleepy Florida island. The great ensemble cast features Edie Falco as Marlee Temple, proprietor of a seaside motel. Her family are long-time residents for six generations. Angela Bassett plays Desiree Perry, a celebrity with a troubled past, returning to visit her mother at her beachfront house. A landscaper architect from Newport, RI romances Marlee, while a local football hero tries to reignite a spark with Desiree in order to secure her mother's property. A zoning board member takes a bribe, while his society wife runs pirate week and a beauty contest. A cool Creek plays his ace to save the seashore. I like the intersectional and multi-generational cast, the nod to pre-history, and the setting on Amelia Island and the Kingsley Plantation. Alan King and his golfing buddies provide a Greek chorus. The soundtrack is brilliant. Kudos to writer and director John Sayles. "}{"Title":"Superordinate Goals.","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to start with a brief sketch of Muzafer Sheriff's Robber's Cave Experiment, a classic in sociology. Boys were randomly picked up and put into one of two groups in an Oklahoma part. Each group didn't know the other existed, so strong bonds were developed in the two groups, who named themselves The Eagles and The Rattlers. In the second phase of the study, the groups were brought together for the first time in competitive situations like football games. They began to hate each other. Names like sissies were thrown back and forth. It was us against them.Phase three borough the Eagles and Rattlers together in shared activities, like bean hunts and watching movies. They still insulted each other. It made no difference.In the last phase, they were faced with a common problem -- the water line to the camp needed fixing, or a trucks was stuck in a rut and needed all the boys to pull it out. Bingo! Faced with a superordinate goal, a common enemy that threatened the welfare of both groups, their mutual hatred disappeared, although the strongest bonds remained within each group.That was the situation that President Reagan meant when he wondered what would happen if the earth were threatened by an invasion of UFOs. It would unite all adversaries, wouldn't it? John Sayles, who wrote and directed Sunshine State, has shown us how this dynamic works before in, say, Matewan. He does it here too. A great big development corporation, like Marriott or something, has plans to take over a sleepy village on Florida's Gulf Coast. Their aim, as one agent puts it, is to take everything that isn't flat and flatten it. They'll turn much of the land into a huge golf course. They'll dig a deep lake for drainage and use the dirt for a hill on which a mansion will be built. The plans fall through, not just because of community protests by both blacks and whites, but because an ancient Indian burial ground is discovered on the site. Granted, it's a deus ex machina, but Sayles seems to realize that a bunch of poor people, however incense, however loud and passionate, are not going to stop the Exeter Land Development and Exploitation Corporation from building a damned golf course! That's the main narrative thread, but it's often buried along the way by the romances, family conflicts, and intrigues within the population. And these are intelligently presented, surprisingly so. The local black doctor, a kindly man, is told by a visitor that racial segregation is a thing of the past, but the doc observes that, yes, it is, but in the old days if you wanted the best ribs, if you wanted a taxi to the airport, if you needed somebody to mow your lawn by hand, you could depend on blacks. What do they have now? McDonalds and gas-powered mowers that a child could use. Black people had a secure place and they've lost it.Some of the best lines are given to Alan King as the head honcho of the Agony Mansion-Builders and Habitat Destruction Megacorporation. The recent attempt to flatten the village may have failed but people must have visions because they'd be lost without them, even if the visions have no foundation in fact. He ponders mining the moon for treasure. It has poetry. He arrogantly dreams of exploiting the stars. It's an appealing line but St. Augustine had a better one You plan a tower that will pierce the clouds? Lay first the foundation of humility.The problem is that the movie get bogged down in those family conflicts, which have a frothy quality. Somebody once stole somebody else's man or girl friend. Somebody was once shipped out of town for being pregnant at fifteen. It makes the film slightly torpid.I was all with the villagers though, hopeless as their situation might be. There was a point near where I lived in North Carolina called Monkey Junction. Four or five dirt roads crossed there and the only building was a gas station whose owner kept a monkey in a cage outdoors for visitors to play with. The name is still Monkey Junction but it's lost its significance. Where the now-paved roads meet, there is a stupendous shopping center, glittering with lights and noise. A nearby Civil War battlefield was plowed over to make room for a housing development. The improvement, to the extent that it exists at all, seems slight. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's NASHVILLE on De-Caf","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spend a lot of time worrying about a day coming, and when it does, it ain't so bad. - Furman Temple, SUNSHINE STATE, 2002So says Ralph Waite's character to daughter Edie Falco in just one of the poignant, sincere moments in John Sayle's SUNSHINE STATE.I have never been a fan of John Sayles, feeling that he uses quirkiness for filmmaking, but it seems that with each film he makes he gets closer to making the masterpiece that will be his crowning achievement. This time I feel that he did it, with the warm and pleasant and strongly cast SUNSHINE STATE.My favorite film is NASHVILLE, and I saw many comparisons in that 1975 over-looked classic, from the eclectic cast (Edie Falco should be on a postage stamp, not once do you even think of Carmela), detached yet Babbit-like view of southern life, to the sly way that people weave through each others lives. Where politics was at the heart of the Altman film, real estate is the centerpiece of Sayle's beachfront story.It was nice to see Jane Alexander (the American Maggie Smith) and Ralph Waite as strong characters in performances that will hopefully be remembered during reward season. Mary Steenburgen's character alone was enough for an entire movie. As a life-long southerner, I know that her character exists, and I have often wondered what they would be like when they are no longer on. After so many films in which Southerners are seen as eccentric backwater children, it is nice to see us portrayed as three-dimensional people who do more than drink Coke out of bottles or act noble at the slightest hesitation.I jest in my header that this is NASHVILLE on de-caf. That's not a bad thing. Sayles' SUNSHINE STATE updates Altman's vision of mankind by 25 years and still sees the same pains and jealousies that existed back then, but makes the film his own with his unique vision and luscious, deep texture.  "},{"Title":"A dreary, fragmented, nonentity of a film.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If a film is to be about people, their lives and interactions, then it can't possibly be  about a small army of dullards. If a film is to keep your attention, it cannot switch  haphazardly between an infinite aggregation of sub-plots. If a film is to engage the  eye, it cannot be shot like a third rate instructional video. If a film is to keep you on  your seat, then it cannot ramble on and on and on without any conclusion.Sometimes, you walk away from a film thinking if only the editing/camerawork/script  had been better - it could have been brilliant. But with this film, there was nothing of  merit. Even the actors give the impression that they couldn't be bothered to try their  best, almost as though they were watching the clock along with the audience.I saw this film last night, and I can barely remember it. I couldn't spoil it for you if I  tried. We tried to work out how the cast were tempted to appear in this film, and we  came to the conclusion that they were lured by the weather. That shouldn't be enough  to lure an audience though.  "},{"Title":"A fine film by most standards - but not one of Sayles's best","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Sayles is probably my favourite filmmakers; there are so many things he does so well writing terrific dialogue; marshalling large casts full of good character actors; not telling us what to think; great use of music; digging out actors we've seen many times before, including from the telly, and casting them very astutely, sometimes against type; and for actually caring about people.  He is a real treasure of independent film-making - and a pretty good actor himself.So, Sunshine State's virtues a truly superb performance by Edie Falco, and a very fine one from Angela Bassett; a host of lovely supporting turns; really getting inside some of the issues explored, and showing us that it's rarely an open-and-shut case (Sayles rarely has unequivocally bad characters in his films, a notable exception being Kris Kristoffersson's character in Lone Star).  The family dynamics were effectively shown, especially the Edie Falco character's.  And Miguel Ferrer was a hoot as the sharklike property developer planning his campaign of attack as a military strategy.POSSIBLE SPOILER IN THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHI had some doubts while there was nothing wrong with Gordon Clapp's acting, I found his character unconvincing and the repeated suicide attempts bathetic.  Mary Steenburgen as his wife was excellent, though.  And then there was Terrell, an interesting young character, but I thought the role was underdeveloped; it's almost as if Sayles bit off more than he could chew, and Terrell was one ball too many to keep in the air.Still, by most standards this film counts as a masterpiece.  See it for Edie Falco's wonderful performance if nothing else.  Oscar nomination? It would be well deserved - but don't hold your breath! "},{"Title":"Captures North Florida graphically","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The crazy mix of people, the real estate hustlers, the old line Floridians, the blacks and the whites, they are all there.  Only thing missing, was Cubans, and they are all over the state now, so that was a bit of an oversight it seems.  But a very entertaining grownup movie in the great John Sayles tradition. "},{"Title":"This film in one sentience; a two and a half hour sleeping pill.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film in one sentience; a two and a half hour sleeping pill.It's not like this film is terrible, there are a few things that it does have going for it, the acting for the most part is good. But quite honestly, the characters are simply so uninteresting, and the story develops so slowly, one cant help but feel after an hour and half wondering what is the bloody point of it all. The premise, big bad developer is poised to plunder the natural beauty and old time sleepy community was hackneyed when it was a story line for a Walton's episode.  Of course that should not mean a filmmaker cant take that story and do something novel or interesting with it, but that is really not what is happening here.  I don't understand why so many people liked this picture. I have seen many more movies that deal better with the topics and situations these characters experience. The eight dollars admission and four dollars for a bottle of water could have been better spent.  "},{"Title":"Dreary and uninteresting film...","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film relentlessly dull. The lives of others are only interesting to me when different from mine. The characters of 'Sunshine State' live in a run-down seaside resort with poorly attended carnivals, threats of 'improvements' by unscrupulous developers, bland beaches and drinking through boredom. Not much happens and the people are less than riveting. Not gripping. Sounds just like the Isle of Wight!  "},{"Title":"So much truth.  We've been Fargo-ed","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie might put some off at nearly 2.5 hours and being all about the characters.  But what characters!  Funny, poignant, endearing and shameless. As a long time Florida resident, I recognized these people completely. This delightful movie is to North Floridians what Fargo is to Minnesotans. Our accents just aren't as funny. "},{"Title":"sad and beautiful","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  don't be misguided by the plot outline this movie delivers much more than another mocumentary on how corporate development destroy lives of ordinary black folks who want just to preserve their humble homes and their community which was built with their own hands. although the motif of greedy developers is of great importance for the plot the main thing  about it it is - through a series of insights on quite ordinary people's lives it shows the whole sadness of the world we all live in. this is the world where there is virtually no place  left for big, romantic dreams everything has been divided, measured and labeled with a neat price tag with many, many zeroes. watching the sayles's character struggle to go on with their lives against all odds is sometimes funny, sometimes bitter - but overall experience is deeply rewarding. the story is terrific and very believable, acting - awesome, cinematography remarkable... and those one-liners just stick to your mind for long, long time afterwards. 'sunshine state' is a real gem. don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I expected it to be.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have very much enjoyed every Sayles movie I have seen and I am generally very fond of Altman-like ensemble movies (Nashville, Short Cuts, etc.)  so I was certainly expecting to enjoy Sunshine State.I found myself, however, slightly disappointed.  Edie Falco's central performance as a motel manager disillusioned with just about every aspect of her life was brilliant and, in my opinion, Oscar-worthy.  On the other hand, I found Angela Basset's equally pivotal role very disappointing and her acting poor.  Neither they nor the generally excellent supporting cast were helped by dialogue which may have read well but did not sound at all convincing when spoken. "}{"Title":"Suffused with a warm humanity","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film, suffused with a warm humanity and alive to the strengths and weaknesses of each of the well detailed (and rounded) characters.The film uses a relaxed (but never slow) pacing to allow the viewer to concentrate on the  nuanced relationships between each of the characters and the ramifications of the events that occur in the movie.The film doesn't have a plot as such, however the underlying theme is that of history personal history, community history, relationship history, physical history and even manufactured history.A real delight to watch. "},{"Title":"Poignant story, riveting acting, adult topics.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a remarkable example of ensemble acting. The characters weave in and out of each other's lives with varying degrees of impact, and the realism and humanity of their relationships is enormously refreshing in a movie season of comic strips and monsters. Superb performances particularly by Mary Alice, Edie Falco, Jane Alexander and Ralph Waite - and Mary Steenbergen and Timothy Hutton also very, very good.The story - the exploitation of nature for the sake of progress, is wryly delivered, but contrasted with an adult treatment of racial themes in the magnificent tradition of masterpieces such as Pinky, Raisin in the Sun and Heat of the Night.Amelia Island, where I believe the movie was filmed, will paradoxically be deluged by travelers wanting to exploit it for themselves.  The pacing of the direction is swift, but the audience is carried along - never lost. "},{"Title":"Sunshine State Spoiled By Rather Cloudy Ending **1/2","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The picture has a very abrupt ending; I'm sure they could have come up with a better ending than that.We have an unusually good premise here. We see a variety of Floridians caught up not only with their personal lives, but with real estate development on their land. We see unscrupulous real estate agents at their best in trying to fool a gullible public.Angela Bassett was marvelous as the young woman, forced out by her perfectionist parents, at age 15, when she became pregnant. Returning to her home with her doctor-husband, she confronts the situation with her aristocratic mother.Ralph Waite is phenomenal, in a supporting role, as a retired restaurant owner, who realizes that change is coming and goes back to the integration of his restaurant and others.As the golfer in a group of golfers, Alan King gives his history of Florida, and the song when the credits roll on may very well want to make you to move to the sunshine state. "},{"Title":"Sunshine State","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sunshine State, the new film by writer/director John Sayles, contains a lot of elements that'll be familiar to his fans - a loose plot with over a dozen characters that inhabit a small community. But unlike something along the lines of Limbo, Sunshine State never really becomes anything more than a showcase for some extraordinary acting and the occasional glimpse into an interesting life. It's entertaining enough, but it's awfully slow-paced and contains large chunks that just aren't that interesting. The whole thing revolves around land development in Florida - a subject which is, putting it kindly, not exactly enthralling. Still, there's no denying that Sayles' has a great ear for dialogue and as always, he's matched his script with some great actors. Timothy Hutton gives one of his best performances as an architect who falls in love with a local motel manager (Edie Falco). He's got a great scene with Falco where the two canoe around the swamps of the town; stuff like that, that dealt with relationships and not the land problems, are what make Sunshine State worth watching. And Angela Bassett, as a former resident of the town who's come back to visit, is equally effective. But as good as all the performances are, they just can't make up for the fact that it's just too darn long. Sunshine State clocks in at nearly two and a half hours, which I suppose would have been wonderful if I had been wrapped up in the story. Alas, I wasn't and several sequences seemed to drag on and on. Having said that, in this era of increasingly mind-numbingly stupid movies, a director like Sayles - who absolutely refuses to create a mainstream film - should be applauded. "},{"Title":"Has John Sayles lost his touch?","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I almost feel like crying.  John Sayles has proven time and again that he's the best independant film maker working today.  I love his work.  However, I must admit that Sunshine State is a major disappointment.  The characters and plot are uninteresting.  A very sad situation.Usually a movie makers gets seduced by Hollywood before they start making turkeys.  Maybe I'm being too critical.  I'm just going to walk away whistling and wait for the next great John Sayles movie.Go get 'em, Tiger!!! "},{"Title":"we need a story and fewer characters and solliloquies","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sushine state has great acting, a colorful local, colorful locals, every stray character actor one would need, a good writer/director... but... no story.  Poor Mr. Sayles bit off way more'n he could chew.  Too many characters.  Great performances, but too many characters to develop.  Tim Hutton sleepwalks through this one.  Even Edie Falco is beside herself--not because of her character, but because she barely has enough time to do anything.  This movie could have been a great one if Sayles had snip, snip, cut, tucked and added a story.  I lived in Florida for many years.  I totally agree with the director's take on development, etc., but one needs more than a didact's megaphone and every character actor in creation.  Where's the script... where's the script.   "},{"Title":"Ain't No Sunshine (loose spoilers)","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Possible spoilers below...I've seen the majority of Sayles work, and still mildly bristle at the fact that Lone Star was not even nominated for an Oscar the year it should have won. But then life outside the Academy is just fine...But this film isn't. It's heart is certainly in the right place...but maybe the head beat it to the impasse. While there's a bit of a deus ex archeologus, a reprieve as suspicious and potentially short-lived as that granted firestarter Terrell; overall this felt like a film wherein subject matter came first and foremost, then story and lastly the characters.Instead of one of those where the writer/director says s/he just followed the characters on their paths. (I know likely a lie en toto, but probably an element of truth in some of the unraveling of those stories...)At first I thought Sayles intended to rally us against rapacious development, however in the film it seems that folks selling their land is an inescapable fact.And speaking of escape, the denizens of this fictional beach town (and its almost annexed neighbor) seem so bent on leaving the place, that it worked against the notion of preserving communities for me. Granted Angela Bassett's character had complications for leaving (the way these are unfurled in the film felt a bit too obvious). The shots of the motel, the Buccanneer days, the abandoned tavern in Lincoln Beach all beckon the bulldozer for me.Maybe that's part of the point? But the point is somewhat lost in a mudslide of some lampooned characters, and quick windows into other middle-range characters. Who's got the gambling problem? Who's wife and kids left him as he traveled too much? Do we need Charlane Woodard and the sock-hop soap-opera from high school to set up the Flash romance??Maybe Sayles should have made a Floridian trilogy to allow more flesh to these characters?Also casting just didn't seem to come up with much spark between players. Mary Alice is just too damn saintly for us to simmer at her with Bassett. More than pragmatism pierces and deflates the romance of Edie Falco and Tim Hutton. The best moments in this ensemble piece, ironically come in monologues, by Ralph Waite and Bill Cobbs.I'd say only see this if you are on a Sayles completist kind of angle, as I am. If you've not seen Lone Star Matewan Eight Men Out Brother From Another Planet Limbo I'd see those instead.5/10Note this might go up if I go back and complete the audio commentary version. I listened to some of that, and was enjoying that more than the film... "},{"Title":"Beautifully understated","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where Robert Altman wields gigantic casts like a battering ram, bombarding audiences with overlapping dialogue and showing off with tricksy camerawork, John Sayles draws us in to his richly observant tales by keeping things simple. He is a fine storyteller.Sunshine State is a perfect example of why Sayles' laid-back approach works so well. This is a flowing, intriguing character study with a wry script delivered by a uniformly excellent and ego-free cast.There is little by way of drama here, just a snapshot of a beachtown community in which lives frequently change but whose heart stays the same. Sit back and soak up the atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"The sum of all of its parts","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director John Sayles, from his own script, brings us to Florida to one week, and  with the leisure of a vacationer on the beach reading a book, lets the the story  unfold with an assured pace. Much like Magnolia, but without the quick cuts  and flashy editing, Sunshine State involves us in the intertwining story of as  many as ten characters, each richly developed and well acted (Angela Bassettand Edie Falco are easy standouts). On the surface the plot regards thedevelopment (and oppostion) of some Florida beach real estate, but this really  about people coming to terms with their past and trying to move on to the future.  Of dreams crushed and realized. Of history and memory.  John Sayles doesn'tprovide any pat or cliched answers and allows us to reach our own conclusions.  This is a smart film for a smart audience, and stands among John Sayles' best  works.Sunshine State is a film rarity, and a complete pleasure. This is a film that  never quite found a place in theatres, but I hope it does on video.  Seek this one  out you'll be glad you did.10/10 "},{"Title":"Good film, tedious story, shows us nothing new.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sunshine State peers into the lives of a clutter of characters who occupy a small Florida beach town at risk of a hostile takeover by land developers examining the local's reflections, ponderings, musings, and interactions in the onslaught of imminent change. Sunshine State is technically and artistically excellent, imbued with a strong sense of local flavor, and hangs firmly onto that which is safe while failing to show us anything new. One can only wonder how dull must be one's life to find the lives of such boring people interesting. A tedious watch at over 2 hours and a bland PG-13 fare, Sunshine State will be most appreciated to more mature audiences who can better identify with the experiences of the characters and who are more inclined to be philosophical. (B) "}{"Title":"Undervalued work by one of America's greatest filmmakers","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has generally been thought of as a minor Sayles work, but I think it demonstrates his talent to the utmost. No other filmmaker I know of is so skillful at creating a believable community, one that feels like a real place, while at the same time illuminating the sense of community throughout the entire United States. Sunshine State focuses on a Floridian community, of course, on a small island off the coast. A lot has gone on here during the last half-century. The island is populated mostly by blacks and whites, most of whom remember the old days of racial tension well. The two races still don't interact much, but they now live side by side in peace. Mostly they hold on to their values as a small community, where individuals owned the businesses and land. At least they try to hold on to those values. Corporations are threatening to turn their paradise, which is actually called Paradise Island, into strip malls and golf courses. Some choose to protest what others see as progress, others have given up. The film has two main characters, a black woman and a white woman, who never meet during the film and, though they know the same people, might never have met, they share similar life experiences. Edie Falco plays Marly Temple. She runs a local motel/restaurant that stands in a location that developers desperately want. Angela Bassett plays a woman who has just returned to Paradise Island after a long absence. Yes, the film is far from perfect. Some of the supporting characters, of which there is an enormous amount, end up as loose threads. And the climax is sort of a weak deus ex machina. But, generally, Sayles creates an utterly complex work that explores its themes in a manner that compels, teaches, and deeply satisfies. It isn't his best film, but it's one of his best. It is perhaps his most ambitious film and it certainly didn't deserve to be passed over like it was. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Sayles shines","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE SUNSHINE STATE (2002) ***1/2  Edie Falco, Angela Bassett, Timothy Hutton, James McDaniel, Jane Alexander, Ralph Waite, Bill Cobbs, Gordon Clapp, Mary Steenburgen, Tom Wright, Mary Alice,  Richard Edson, Marc Blucas, Miguel Ferrer, Charlayne Woodard, Alan King, Alexander Lewis.  Indie king original John Sayles scores once again in this expertly acted exploration of social class structure, facing past sins and not-so-rosy futures, interracial communities and ultimately the human condition with equal parts stark comedy and poignant drama.  Falco and Bassett shine respectively as Floridian natives &#150; one who never left the small resort town, the other finding out the old adage &#145;you can never go home again' &#150; and should be ear-marked for awards season.   "},{"Title":"Good cast, great scenery-----","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ---but you have to pay attention.Edie Falco, Timothy Hutton, Angela Bassett, Mary Steenburgen, Jane Alexander, Ralph Waite, Alan King in a John Sayles film about Florida and development. Good and bad, yes and no, and the decisions people make. Bassett and her doctor husband, (Desiree and Reggie), have come to visit her Mama and the old home next to a beautiful white beach. It is in the area that was bought up by a wealthy black man and resold to other blacks in the early years of Florida when no blacks were allowed on beaches run by towns or counties. But with desegregation, lots of the original families have gone on to other places. So the land is ripe for picking by land developers. The various characters and companies who want to develop strip malls and franchise restaurants come like locusts. One company has its' bulldozers ready. The Temple family, who own a motel, restaurant complex, are the interesting group. Daughter Marly(Falco) runs things now, but hates it. Dad, Furman(Waite), is almost blind, and rants about how things used to be, when you could refuse accommodations to anyone. Mom, Delia(Alexander), has her own life and has never had any part of the family business. But she has had 25 years of running a community theater. At the final scenes of the story, she is the one who tells the hot-shot snotty businessman what is what, and what he and the other guys wanting to develop the land will have to do - sign contracts, share future profits, 5-10 years down the road, etc. Not for nothing has she raised and managed funds for her beloved theater all these years. There will be development, but there will be some who can say what kind. Long and complex, this is a film with many stories and takes its' time. Alexander plays her big scene quietly and with such good humor, you almost fail to realize it is the key scene in the film. The rest of the cast are very good and all have their shining moments. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sunshine State on Reel 13","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I took two whole pages worth of notes for SUNSHINE STATE when it aired on Reel 13 on Saturday. There a couple of reasons for this 1) the film is about two and a half hours long, so I had the time and 2) the film is very slow and boring, so I wasn't lost in the film and could focus on my notes without fear of missing anything. What's most surprising about the failure of SUNSHINE STATE is that director John Sayles is usually pretty reliable and (as we were oft-reminded by the Reel 13 hosts) is a legend in independent cinema. He has at least two masterpieces (Orson Welles used to say you only needed one) with EIGHT MEN OUT (1988) and the frequently forgotten Spanish-language MEN WITH GUNS (1998) (Some people might include LONE STAR (1996) on that list, but I am not among them). He might even have a few more with MATEWAN (1987) and CITY OF HOPE (1991), but I haven't seen them yet, so I'll have to abstain. The point is how did such a prolific auteur miss the mark so badly? Ambition, for one thing. While he has had success with gambles in the past (EIGHT MEN OUT was awfully ambitious too &#150; an independent period piece about baseball???), Sunshine State seems to bite off more than it could chew. Critics often say that any film with lots of characters is a wannabe Altman, which is often unfair, but this film actually fits that profile. Not only does it have a schmorgasbourg of protagonists, it also adopts Altman's penchant for zooms (particularly in reveals) and blocking criss-crossing conversations. For some inexplicable reason, however, these techniques are not as successful for Sayles. The zooms are awkward, stilted and poorly timed. The criss-crossing dialogue doesn't work as well because the characters should be in the middle of a conversation when the camera comes toward them &#150; not starting a new conversation &#150; that's contrived and forced. If anything, SUNSHINE STATE makes you appreciate the mastery of Altman that much more &#150; he had this amazing ability of making those techniques work seamlessly. Altman also uses his time efficiently managing to fill each scene with enough character detail that he is able to juggle all his characters. Unfortunately, for Sayles, only a handful of the characters are very interesting or developed (some story lines are just downright abandoned), resulting in what feels like a lot of wasted time.There are also several Fellini-esquire moments scattered throughout the film that substitute local Florida iconography (alligators, mermaids, pirates) for the religious imagery often utilized by the Italian master. Additionally, Sayles seems to have adopted Fellini's pre-occupation with processions/parades, even choosing to end the film with one. These moments are okay and do fit in with the tongue-in-cheek tone of the film, but the basic character work, normally a forte of Sayles and the foundation of any film, wasn't done and so the extra touches have less impact.Possibly the most annoying part of the film is its social commentary, chiefly represented by Alan King and his group of senior citizen golfers who appear in random scenes interspersed throughout the film as a sort of Greek chorus, who offer observations on Florida and also the human condition. Highly unnecessary! If John Sayles weren't his own editor, these scenes would be the first to go. And then to add insult to injury, the overarching storyline (that thing that affects all the characters &#150; like the earthquake in SHORT CUTS or the murder in GOSFORD PARK) involves the big bad developers (an easy villain) trying to buy up land in town to create shopping malls and luxury apartments, etc. Needless to say, almost all the characters have a thing or two to say about this and they aren't subtle about it. It's almost groan-inducing.Among the actors (there are many), most of the cast is fine (I didn't love Ralph Waite &#150; he overplayed his hand&#133;), but Edie Falco is the one who stood out the most to me. In many ways, her character is the voice of reason in the picture, but she and Sayles (he always been good writing female characters) add layers of complexities - self-doubts, desires and contradictions. Timothy Hutton and Mary Alice are also very good in much smaller roles. They weren't as developed as some of the other characters, but I couldn't help but thinking that both of them needed to work more.Throughout his career, Sayles has had the remarkable ability to do a wide variety of styles and genres. His body of work is very eclectic THE BROTHER FROM ANOTHER PLANET is a far cry from LIMBO and PASSION FISH. With SUNSHINE STATE, he tries to expand the parameters of his oeuvre even further, experimenting with the sprawling, mutli-protagonist, episodic format. While I am very impressed by Sayles' versatility and interest in trying out different ideas, it must be said that his latest foray into new territory didn't work as well as some of his other efforts. But, for what it's worth, I can't blame him for trying. "},{"Title":"Too long","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story in Sunshine State begins with a woman who returns to this small town of Florida where she grew up. It's been a long time since she left and a lot of things have changed, even people have changed. We come to know several inhabitants of the place and their struggle to survive and the threaten of a construction company that wants to turn the town into some kind of resort with golf fields and swimming pools.Sayles is a nice dialog writer and he's created some interesting characters, but his movie turns out to be a little bit long. In other words he bit off more than he can chew. Maybe he could've made a TV series with this material, such like Picket Fences or Northern Expsoure, 'cause it looks like he wanted to tell too many things in just one movie.*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sayles does it again","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Sayles seems to do two different kinds of movies. One involves just a few central characters and few actual sets, as in Limbo. And in the other kind of movie he brings together a dozen or more characters in a single locale, and using more locations, like City of Hope and Sunshine State.In this movie Sayles uses the fictional community of Delrona Beach, Florida to tell his story. The threads of the plot include a compulsive gambler (Gordon Clapp) and his wife (Mary Steenbergen), A newlywed woman coming home to confront her past, the annual Buccaneer Days festival/celebration, and the efforts by a developer to buy out the residents in order to build a proper tourist trap (not just one that gears up once a year).As in all Sayles films, the characters drive the plot (not vice versa). He has pulled together a cast of easily recognizable character actors like Clapp and Miguel Ferrer (when is he gonna play a nice guy?) plus some local talent. All do a remarkable job.  So, what are you waiting for, an engraved invitation? Get up, drive over to the video store and rent this one. And get one or two of Sayles' other films as well.  "},{"Title":"Involving film...could have been more focused.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I'm a bit prejudice, the film was shot in North Florida where I live.(I'm always rooting for the home team.)That aside the movie is very moving and interesting when it stays with the main characters. Edie Falco and Angela Bassett star as two women trying to come to terms with their histories in their Florida hometown. Miss Falco and Miss Bassett are very good in the film and the movie it at it's best when it stays focused on their stories. The movie is very large in scope and in characters. That is the only problem in the movie. The side stories and characters are mostly uninteresting and uninvolving. But when the movie sticks with the two family stories it is quite touching. The film show-cases many fine actors such as Bill Cobbs, Mary Alice, James McDaniel and Ralph Waite. The DVD is somewhat long,2 hours and 20 minutes, so take a break while watching. The film is better if you watch it in two parts. If you enjoy involved family stories and you don't mind a film that takes it's time, you really should see John Sayles latest film. "},{"Title":"Sayles as a Melodramatist; One of his best","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally I've figured out John Sayles.  I have seen a lot of his movies (Lone Star is my favorite and gets my highest recommendation if you haven't already seen it) but he remained sort of a cipher as a moviemaker to me up until now.  His casts are always so huge and impressive, true ensembles. He usually tackles trying to capture a place and the feeling and tensions within those places (sometimes he does this with an era, as he did with the late 1910's in Eight Men Out).  And sometimes, some of his actors, plot devices, and filmmaker's twists and turns seem so contrived and nearly phony.  What I've figured out about Sayles is this  he is essentially making melodramas, movie soap operas that are elevated above the daytime television trash by consistently strong acting, careful and well-planned interweaving of plot lines, and a sharp sense of atmosphere.Sunshine State is one of Sayles' most unabashedly melodramatic works, and, as a result, one of his strongest.  He finally seems to submit to his melodramatic tendencies that made some of his other films, like City of Hope and at points Limbo, seem ludicrously unreal.  The story is many-pronged. In the Florida resort town of Plantation Island, there are two disparate communities  Verona Beach is the white seacoast town and Lincoln Beach is its black cousin across the island, a throwback to the segregationist South. Both towns are in varying states of economic despair and cultural disintegration, and are equally at the mercy of wealthy land developers who want to gobble up the area to bulldoze the island.  The parallel structure that Sayles employs is not new to him (he talked about both the Mexicans and the Texans, and their interrelationships, in Lone Star to similar effect) and he extends it here to tell the stories of two families, one white and one black.Marly Temple (Edie Falco) unhappily operates her family's Sea-Vue motel and greasy spoon seafood restaurant after her father Furman (Ralph Waite) loses his sight and falls ill (the mother, played by Jane Alexander, is a dotty community theatre doyenne and greyhound activist).  Developers want to take the run-down land from the Temples, with its prime beachfront property and convert it to a tropical paradise of retail shops.  The company, represented by landscape designer Timothy Hutton, and golf-playing overlord Alan King, infiltrates the lives of the town's denizens throughout the movies.  On the flip-side is the black community, similarly falling prey to developers. Desiree Perry (Angela Bassett) returns home to visit her mother Eunice (Mary Alice) with her new husband, a gentrified anesthesiologist from the North (James McDaniel) in tow.  There are skeletons in each family's closet and the specter of segregation and racism hangs over it all, but now they face a common foe in the land developers.Sayles' greatest asset has always been his casts and his creation of characters for those casts, and Sunshine State is a foremost example of that strength.  Great character actors like Bill Cobbs, as the Lincoln Beach legend who leads anti-development protests, Mary Steenburgen, as the overeager planner of the town's Buccaneer Days, and Gordon Clapp as her suicidal husband, are all on the periphery of the story.  As with any ensemble picture, and Sunshine State is one in every sense of the word, there are standouts.  Here in particular, I was drawn to Ralph Waite, totally immersing himself in the anti-Papa Walton, Timothy Hutton, whose screen charisma seems to increase with age, and Edie Falco, once again proving herself as one of the strongest, most independent actresses working today on big and little screens (and I say that without ever seeing The Sopranos).  But commendations are deserved all around the cast.  Sayles too has created a mood in which his character sketches flourish, and his talented actors just run away with them.To return to the notion of Sayles' movies as melodramas  they all have a contrived feeling, as if the audience can map out the various twists and turns and figure out the character connections before they are made clear onscreen.  There is greater epiphany in the self-discovery and when the thing actually happens that the audience suspected all along, it is inconsequential.  In some of Sayles' films, I think that this is a detriment; in Sunshine State, I think it only helps bring the story into the consciousness of the viewer.  By engaging the audience proactively, Sayles gives his seemingly clichd situations and connections emotional gravity. Everything now seems to have a purpose even if you figure out that purpose long before Sayles does.  This way, he achieves a sort of milieu, a sense of time and place and people, that exist long before the movie starts, and will continue exists long after the final shot (which is comically ingenious). The melodrama is too engaging to be hokey and too real to be ludicrous, and that is what saves Sayles.  "},{"Title":"Have your remote ready...","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... the fast forward button is definitely your friend on this one. This is basically a good story with some interesting characters, but most of the scenes are waayy tooo loooong! The plot revolves around the struggle between greedy developers and the good folks of Plantation Island, Fl. Of course we get the standard weaving of personal struggles into the bigger story line, and this is where this picture fails. Many of these sub-plots go on forever and are never resolved. It's almost like the director decided after 2 1/2 hours gee I guess I better end the movie now. This film features many very good, well known actors (Edie Falco, Gordan Clapp, Mary Steenburgen, just to name a few), and they all do excellent jobs, given the overall weakness of the script. I give this movie a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Subtle, ambiguous and very well done.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Sayles (who writes, directs and edits- now there's artistic control) has made another gem. It's the new struggle of corporate America vs anybody who stands in their way. The developers hoping to turn a small Florida town into a tourist trap won't be stopped by notions of tradition, nostalgia or home. What can't be commodified can't be saved. But here, alliances, allegences and our ideas about who the good and bad guys are are always shifting. And thats the beauty of this movie. See it!  "}{"Title":"Solid Effort.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I generally agree with most of the comments previous.  This is not Sayles' best film, and I wish they would have cut out the Masteritino character and a couple of others, but you will still find a lot of moments when you are completely immersed in the characters and their lives.  A solid 7/10. "},{"Title":"John Sayles movies are on a different level to any other film maker","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this movie last night and whilst there are no car chases, explosions or murders to solve there is still plenty to keep your mind occupied for the two and half hour duration.I can't think of any other director who manages to make films like this. Having seen Limbo a couple of years back I kind of knew what to expect with this movie, fine actors, lots of quality dialogue, splendid direction and various engrossing plots - and I wasn't disappointed. My only problem with Sunshine State is that there were maybe just too many characters to follow. Perhaps if Sayles had concentrated more on just a couple of stories instead of multiple plot strands it may have presented a more in depth look at some great tales that were boiling under the surface.That said, I really enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to anybody who wants a change from the usual 90 minute popcorn-fest. Please watch it, it will make you think about things long after it's finished.8 out of 10 on the meejoir-movie-ometer!!   "},{"Title":"Some great storys well told.  A people film.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that the production held together very well. I had purposefully read nothing about the movie before going to see it. I was engrossed within minutes and found myself relating to the community the story was set in, I grew up in a small town and watched it struggle to become a small city. Having lived in the south for two years during the late 60's I could also relate to segregation issues presented in the storyline about Desiree, believe it or not in 1969 there were still white and black bathrooms, restaurants, swimming pools and such. The `sound track' was simply background music that happened to be playing at the location the action was taking place at rather than the standard orchestral score that plays during 99% of the movie.I found the plain spoken Marly (Edie Falco) character particularly humorous. Also humorous were the chamber of commerce woman Francine (Mary Steenburgen) and her husband Earl (Gordon Clapp), with the golfers comments taking third place for humor. I found the character of Earl Pickney (Bill Cobb) particularly likable. I was surprised by the size of the cast.I found myself wondering if the numerous storylines presented would ever come together. Except for a few brief moments, they did not. At first I found the different story lines a bit confusing, but after switching through the story lines twice I settled in and enjoyed the stories. I thought I was able to get a small taste of what a small struggling Florida town might actually be like.This movie may not appeal to the younger crowd, or other people that have difficulty identifying with some part of this movie.  "},{"Title":"My review of Sunshine State","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I viewed John Sayles' wonderfully fulfilling movie Sunshine State yesterday here in Princeton. It is everything one hopes to experience when going to the movies, drama, humor, excellent casting, beautiful camera work and cinematography, conflicts and sub-plots That make sense!, it has it all. At the end of the day come Oscar time, if Sunshine State does NOT make at least several categories for an Oscar, I will personally boycott films made by the major Hollywood film studios! John Sayles knows how to make GREAT FILMS!! Go to see Sunshine State and enjoy and experience an excellent movie.  "},{"Title":"great cast  excellent script","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The brilliant point about Sunshine State is the depth of the cast. Great to see people like Richard Edson (Steve) shining in a little but important part. Have liked him since Stranger Than Paradise in '84. Spotted a few faces from earlier Sayles movies (mostly Brother from Another Planet and Passion Fish cast) as well. And this time there are some more well known faces - however the overall impression is one of depth and and the portrait of change seems quite real. "},{"Title":"How the past shapes the present","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An American coastal town faces the attentions of predatorydevelopers, while it's inhabitants face up to their pasts. This is awonderful slow-burning film, with multiple story lines (in theAltmanesque mode) depicting how the past shapes the present, and howthe past is packaged and branded. Some fine acting from a top classensemble cast, with particularly fine performances from AngelaBassett and Edie Falco. The bitter-sweet story does not have astrong narrative drive to move it along, but the editing of theinterlocking stories does keep up the momentum going - though thefilm is a little too long. Overall, though, a very good film.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie, great personality profiles, horrible color.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thought the story line was very unique.  Edie Falco really shined in this role - stole the movie.  This is no action film, but a relaxed look at the characters in this small Florida town which was very interesting.  The cuts were very sudden and quirky, almost jarring, and the quality of the print color was terrible.  Seems like someone must have left the film cans in the back of the car in 120 degree heat - the color is all washed out, dull and bland.  I hope this print was unique and the others have improved color.  "},{"Title":"In the vein of Altman's Short Cuts","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Flawed but loveable characters deliver throughly entertaining lines.  The characters lives all barely intertwine in this story of a small community facing big changes.  Edie Falco does a great job as a worn down grownup, who used to be a weekeewawkee mermaid.  Especially funny if you know Southerners--this movie is smart beautifully shot. "},{"Title":"A Moral Wake-Up Call from Sayles & Renzi","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With all due respect to Sujit R. Varma (who wrote the summary), when you say... A comedy drama set in modern day Florida concerning two vibrant women who find themselves, after their big time dreams have not panned out, back in their small neighboring hometowns... you're implying that everyone else in town succeeded in achieving their big time dreams EXCEPT Marly (Edie Falco) and Desiree (Angela Bassett).But Marly and Desiree aren't the only ones who return home older & wiser, so do Marly's ex-husband (the former Rock musician) and Desiree's ex-boyfriend (the former college football star).  So I think the point is about growing-up more generally.  Many of us, if we're lucky, have big time dreams as teenagers.  Then life happens we make various choices, some of our dreams come true, some of our dreams change, and one day, we find we've become adults.  At that point, do we accept responsibility for our choices?  Do we shrug off our disappointments and say Hey, that's life?  Or do we wallow in self-pity, thinking of ourselves as powerless victims?I find this film very optimistic and life-affirming.  At the end, both Marly and Desiree take full ownership of their own lives, and you can sense that their specific families and their community in general will be better as a result.When Sayles & Renzi made this new film, both were on the cusp of turning 50.  (Sayles was born in 1950 & Renzi was born in 1951.)  50 is a milestone year.  I know.  I just turned 50 myself.  I think Sayles and Renzi are saying you must decide will you live your life as a morally awake individual... or just sit on the sidelines and complain?Change is going to happen.  Development is going to happen.  In and of itself, that's not a bad thing.  It's only bad if individuals abdicate their personal and civic responsibilities, don't stay informed, don't act, don't vote, don't care... just sit on the sidelines and complain.  Bill Cobbs as Dr. Lloyd is the conscience of this film.  Alan King as Murray Silver is the poet of this film.  These are wonderful roles for two wonderful actors two feisty old codgers who can teach everyone of us a thing or two.  Add in Jane Alexander, Mary Alice, and Ralph Waite and you have a range of role models for growing old with dignity.  When was the last time you had THOSE kind of options in an American film?Thank you. John Sayles!  Thank you, Maggie Renzi!  "},{"Title":"What the ensemble movie is supposed to be","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Years ago,I caught my first John Sayles movie.It was Matwan.  It was a riveting story about a coal miners strike in West Virginia in the early 1920s and it played to pretty small audiences, even for an art house film. But, despite some minor problems, it was a small masterpiece.Since then, Sayles has proven himself to be one of the best directors in America when it comes to dealing with regional topics that in reality affect all of us.Sayles has been more successful at some times than at others as he skips around the country, highlighting one region or another.  City of Hope, about a decaying New Jersey town, was rather hit and miss.  Lone Star, about life in a Texas border town, came closer to hitting its mark.  But a film set in Alaska after that failed in my view.  With Sunshine State, Sayles is right on the money.Sayles gives us the best look at Florida since Victor Nunez' Ruby in Paradise which was simply brilliant.  The story, reportedly shot on Amelia Island, Florida, is about the lives of numerous characters caught in a tug of war as two land development outfits try to move in on middle and lower middle class people trying to live their lives on an island off the Florida coast.And the great thing is, the developers are not completely bad, and some of the locals actually want to sell out, and as fast as possible.Edie Falco and Angela Bassett have the meatiest roles and both shine in them.  But this is a real ensemble piece, and Tim Hutton, Gordon Jump, Ralph Waite and a slew of others,including Alan King playing Alan King, do excellent work as well.This is a good Robert Altman movie about working class people with that special Sayles touch, meaning there are no cliches involved. Most of these characters don't want to be working class, they want to move up or at least out.Don't miss this one.  There won't be many this year that are this good. "}{"Title":"Complex, funny, warm, delicious.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful movie.  I didn't want it to end (highly unusual for me, as I am typically a watch-checker), and I still want to know how all the characters' lives turned out.  The humor in the film is subtle, and the profundity is frequently tossed off as so much fluff.  I need to see this film again in order to figure out how all the plot strands intertwine. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Funny, entertaining, and in-depth","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I live on the island where they filmed the movie I had the opportunity to attend a private screening. The movie is really more of a character study of the various people involved in the story, it really focused on their lives and thoughts. I thought that John Sayles did a wonderful job of bringing these characters to life. The movie was also very funny and witty which made the characters a lot easier to relate to. The only problem that I had with the film was that they left you hanging on some of the characters. I felt like I never got closure on several of the characters lives; they were just left out of the ending. Overall, I would recommend this film to anyone who loves a good laugh and especially to those who live in Florida and understand the conflicts that are arising with the increasing price of property and of big companies that are trying to buy out the 'little' people.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, laid-back character study","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this at a benefit premiere in Monmouth County, NJ over the weekend. A bit of a shaggy-dog story that takes its time getting where it's going, which is nowhere in particular (this is not meant as a bad thing). It's an ensemble piece that focuses on a group of people and their relationship to a little slice of Florida coast. Some, including Marly (Edie Falco) and Desiree (Angela Bassett), have deep roots, while others, mostly developers, see the place for its potential. Writer-director-editor John Sayles keeps the various intertwined stories moving along; his occasional tendency to stuff polemical speeches in the mouths of his characters pops up here and there, but not as much as some of his other works (Matewan in particular).The performances are the thing here. Of special note is Edie Falco in an unglamourous role as a woman who, through familial loyalty, bad choices, and just plain inertia, finds herself chained to her past. Her yearning is palpable; when a glimmer of hope or memory crosses her face, it seems as though twenty years melt away, revealing the hopeful and vibrant young girl she once was. (I've seen Falco do this on The Sopranos, too - I think it's in her eyes - they are so big and open, I feel like I could fall into them and never come up). Also enoyable is Alan King as the most talkative of a group of golfers who serve as a cracked Greek chorus to the main stories.An enjoyable way to while away a couple of hours on a summers' afternoon if it's too rainy or muggy to be outdoors. "},{"Title":"Sunshine in Florida should be this good","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am somewhat of a John Sayles devotee. He writes, directs, produces and edits many of his films.  Without knowing who he was, I was trapped in his story telling in The Secret of Roan Inish and thereafter Lone Star and then Men With Guns.Knowing that I had to make sure that I arose early enough to jog, shower and eat breakfast, I awoke much before that in the night of this Sunday thinking about what I would expect from his newly released film.  The screening of this film was 930am -- so I had to jog fast then splash a shower then scramble an egg plopped atop toast then haul ass to the theater.  And find free parking.  No problem, it is Sunday and even in Beverly Hills parking on the street on Sunday is free.My experience with a Sayles film told me these things  (1) the film would be character based and deeply enriched into the lives of those characters along with all their mental baggage from years prior; (2) each character has some subliminal association with some overarching message in the film; (3) the subliminal messages are slowly released like a 30-day contraception pill that eventually delivers a 12-pound baby; (4) all characters are neutral with respect to race, gender, orientation or profession or vocation as to their contribution to the story; (5) and it is this craftsmanship by Sayles that delivers the product.I was not disappointed.  Sayles, as usual, deals with ethnic values and heritage respectfully and also delves into many layers of Florida's past over a few hundred years or more towards the present all of which adds to the quilt work beneath this story.Watching this film is much like reading a book into which we get lost in our own concentration of fitting our own experience with that of the writer.This is the level that Sayles always delivers - in which the human experience of each character is displayed while being dragged along a path of the overarching envelope.  "},{"Title":"wonderfully surprising, and fulfilling","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got to see this film at the Seattle International Film Festival, which I had never before been privileged to attend. Well, for my first trip to SIFF, I think that I picked a great movie. Not being a HUGE fan of director John Sayles, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. A wonderful enssamble cast created a great story set in the Sunshine State of Florida. The movie surrounds families, property and business owners, and their descions. Sayles does a terrific job protraying what goes through a person's mind, when making life changing descisions. I can't say enough how much I enjoyed this movie, because it contained great acting, writing, and of course, the beautiful location. Angela Bassett was fabulous, so was Edie Falco and love interest, Timothy Hutton. It is hard to pick out just a handful of performers in an enssamble cast that really delivered greatly. But, this is not a pure drama, it appeared more as a comedy, with a little drama thrown in for the mix. Hopefully you will, as I did, laugh out loud, and really enjoy yourself. I look forward to more of Sayles' movies in the future. "},{"Title":"Expecting Rain","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sunshine State takes place over the course of a weekend at a Florida community called Plantation Island. The film revolves around a small cluster of characters, all of whom are living under the thumb of wealthy property developers.Unlike most of these films, which typically pit the lower and middle classes against gentrifying corporations, Sunshine State aims for something a bit more nuanced. Yes, the property developers are portrayed as being amoral, reckless and conniving &#x96; they're a group of multimillionaire golfers, mockingly portrayed as a Greek chorus &#x96; but as we go down the social hierarchy the film's characters become more interesting and somewhat harder to gauge.And so you have civil engineers and architects who are treated with sympathy, but whom the film makes complicit in the destruction of Plantation Island. Then you have small businessmen and shop owners, who rather than resist the gentrification of their community, see it as a chance to cash in and move on. Contrasted with these are other characters who either vehemently oppose the slimy conglomerates who seek to bulldoze their town, or are simply apathetic and don't care what happens.On another level the film observes as capitalism suffocates tradition and turns everything into kitschified simulacra. And so we watch as Big Business reshapes Florida, moulding it into a kind of flat, plastic fantasy image of what a beach paradise should look like. The world is derealized, tradition erased, but the film doesn't pine for simpler times or wallow in nostalgia, but forces its audience to acknowledge that man is always compromising his past. Take one character, who stubbornly refuses to sell her home to the property developers but who has no problems opening a box of Popeye's chicken rather than cooking her own traditional home-made chicken recipe. What these characters want to hold on to is already gone, and what remains is only a kind of homey simulation, a make believe community which they ritualistically uphold, but which is just as flat as the one the bulldozers want to install.The film has a series of interesting motifs orbiting around its characters - the name Plantation Island alluding to chattel slavery, fake treasure hunt and pirate holidays suggestive of a community hungry for some kind of history, the story of a mermaid who must keep smiling, the ironic edge of the title Sunshine State etc etc &#x96; but what's most interesting is its air of complete dejection. The film simply does not know how to resolve the problems it attempts to highlight, and eventually settles upon a kind of cinematic shrug you can't fight it, so just cash in and get out. Millions have already done it before you.The film was directed by John Sayles, but owes a lot to director Robert Altman, another man fond of sprawling, ensemble pieces. Of course there are significant differences between the two directors. While Altman allows his actors to improvise heavily, Sayles relies on locked down dialogue, his film complete the moment the ink dries on his scripts. And while Altman's camera is probing and curious, suggestive of a certain tangled richness, spontaneity, chaos and complexity, Sayles' camera is often flat and his aesthetic plain. More importantly, while Altman's narrative arcs are invisible and his messages often indirect and hidden, Sayles films are largely comprised of sermonising heads and walking mouth pieces, blunt characters who espouse Sayles' views (a very cartoonish socialism) in as direct a manner as possible.Essentially, though, the difference is that Sayles' ensembles are driven by the pen. He is foremost a writer, and the ensemble style of his films is nothing but a evolutionary by-product of the problems he faced as an amateur film-maker. Stuck with low budgets, and a novice with the camera, his early films relied on cutting to other characters talking to give his films shape and help propel things along. His aesthetic has changed little over his career.And so while Sunshine State is well meaning, paints far more complex characters than are typically found in this genre and wrestles with genuinely important problems, it is still largely a film in which people stand around philosophising. And while some of its characters and subplots work very well (particularly actress Eddie Falco's), much of the dialogue is poorly written and the linkages between the film's characters clunkily drawn. Worst of all, the film is only pretending to be an ensemble, is only pretending to offer a societal and cultural cross section. In reality, all its characters have one voice, all their bodies filtered through Sayles' very narrow prism.7.9/10 &#x96; Though refreshing in the way it skirts around clichs, Sayles reached an intellectual dead end about five films back. Here he fumbles for a future. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Great characters, too much dialog","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Sayles, and while in this film he creates some memorable characters--particularly Desiree and Marly--the fact is he wrote it a little too tight. There's simply too much he wants to say to fit in the mouths of the actors, and they're left reciting paragraph after meaningful paragraph instead of acting.The effort is laudable, but the result is a dearth of real emotion. It plays a bit like the penultimate draft of a script, before the final paring removes all but the truly essential. Compare it to the brilliant Lone Star, which left lots of space around the dialog but lacked for nothing.Sunshine State is game effort from a great writer, and it's enjoyable for the acting. But the packed script left me feeling a bit like I'd just prepared for a test. "},{"Title":"Florida's history is not very sunny","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Sayles frequently focuses on issues affecting geographical areas. The battle over education in Texas in Lone Star and the development of Alaska in Limbo. Sunshine State focuses on the development of Florida. We see how the developers want to turn into a resort an area that was part of the state's African-American history, for instance.As it stands, Florida seems like a giant golf course already, what with Disneyworld and such things. Granted, they have Cape Canaveral and all, but that's about it. Florida actually has a lower immunization rate than Jamaica, and a higher infant mortality rate than Cuba (must have been caused by those rich Cubans who fled the revolution). It's quite literally the Third World of the United States, despite the fact that elderly people like to retire there.Anyway, John Sayles has created another masterpiece, comparable to Lone Star. I wholeheartedly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Writer, Director, Editor...","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, it's wayyyy too long. I want my three hours back. The firstand most important rule of filmmaking is, Don't bore theaudience. As such, the attitude should be to get to the point andmove on. Sayles gets to the point, but then he doesn't move on inthis story. Characters spend wayyy too much time reminiscing andrecounting the past. It gets downright boring. I'm all for exposition,but Jesus H. Christ, there such a thing as too much exposition.There were a few interesting characters that were involved insubplots that never got resolved. And I'm not a big fan of fakesouthern accents in general. I don't think I'll remember much aboutthis film after a time.  "},{"Title":"The Human Comedy -- Florida Style","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wry pastiche of disparate fortunes befalling a wide spectrum of townspeople.  Some rise triumphantly above disappointment while others fail to see the humor in seeing lifetime goals and attachments to history and community rendered irrelevant by opportunity.  I see glimpses of Saroyan and Forsyth here as much as others see Altman.  Sayles entices us to be caught up in the families' histories and the melancholy that comes when communities are foresaken.  The irony is that although the old codgers led by developers Alan King and Clifton James seem like delightful comic relief as a Greek Chorus commenting on the featured stories, the viewer actually is shown things from an inside-out perspective.  In fact, it is the rich retiree golfers who are the future of the Island, and it is the shallow and greedy who sold at the right time who prosper.  The deep and loving people who clung far too long to idealized concepts and humane values are the ones left with the fuzzy ends of the lollipop.  All of it is well-acted and well-written.  The only change I would have made would be to start Mary Steenburgen's story after her husband successfully completed one of his suicide attempts.  The unnecessary and unwelcome Gordon Clapp character wasted too much time and messed up the film's pacing.  But that's a minor gripe.  Overall, a very wry film that gives the audience a different perspective on real-estate development.  Business is not always the villain and golf is a great game. "}{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, but I watched it over the course of four installments. This may sound strange, but I don't understand why movies like this are made. It seemed pretty obvious that this movie wouldn't make money, and the effort put into it might have been better spent elsewhere. Of course, I'm not the type of movie fan that generally appreciates movies on an artistic level (though there are a few exceptions), and I thought the individual performances were excellent, but I just didn't see the purpose of this movie being made. Just one man's opinion. "},{"Title":"Workable, but partially uneven comedy-drama","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Workable, but partially uneven comedy-drama from the always reliable writer/director John Sayles that looks at two women (Edie Falco and Angela Bassett) who have separate agendas and deal with living in a small Florida community.  Another sub plot that I liked involves some of the residents are trying to prevent real estate developers purchasing a historic portion of the town.  Despite that, The Sunshine State doesn't seem to have the usual feel that Sayles brings to his films (Lone Star and City of Hope) yet the performances by Bassett, Falco, Mary Steenburgen, Alan King, and Timothy Hutton are worth watching here. "},{"Title":"Realistic at the expense of being a little boring","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sunshine State was realistic at the expense of being boring.  There was nothing that exciting in it.  The conflicts are everyday ones, and a lot of people usually see movies that are anything but everyday conflicts.  It doesnt matter though, I love this movie.  It's not for people who have ADD.  It's one of the best of 2002, but not something you'd watch over and over again.  The acting was very well done, and the movie was very well written. B+ or A-, 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not the best of John Sayles per se,but its passable.....","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time it seems that as if writer-director John Sayles can't possibly come up with an premise even more brazenly non-commercial than his previous efforts--this is,after all,the guy who gave us adulterated lesbianism in Lianna,striking coal miners in West Virginia in Matewan,and impoverished Latin American villagers in Men With Guns--he manages to surprise us with a topic that won't interest anyone obsessed with goldmembers but will serve as nourishment to folks desiring some substance in their cimematic diet.In the sprawling manner of City Of Hope(one of his most underrated films),Sunshine State is a multi-character piece that takes a hard look at the people and politics surrounding a stretch of land in Florida. The fictional Plantation Island is the setting,made up of modest beachfront communities that find themselves at risk of disappearing once developers show up with their eye on turning the valuable property into resorts for wealthy Northerners.Among those involved in the proceedings are a motel owner(Edie Falco) whose exhaustion makes it hard for her to decide whether to fight or sell;an amiable architect(Timothy Hutton) who ends up forming a bond with the motel owner;a failed actress(Angela Bassett)who left town when she was 15 and pregnant and is only now returning for a visit with her husband(James McDaniel of NYPD Blue) and has a confrontation with her mother;and a doctor(Bill Cobbs)who's outraged that the historical significiance of his African-American community will be wiped out forever once the bulldozers start tearing everything apart. Had all of the vignettes been of equal quality,this might have ranked with Sayles' very best films,but there is still enough material that is reminded here that is admired,including some uniformly fine performances from Falco and Bassett as well as Sayles' insistences on letting all sides have their say.Hince the running time over 2 hours and 29 minutes. "},{"Title":"Sayles has his most-balanced treatment today about the impact of time, history, and environment on the evolution of human habitation.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever the social realist and humanist, John Sayles (`Lone Star,' `Matewan,' for example) in `Sunshine State' Ever the social realist and humanist, John Sayles (`Lone Star,' `Matewan,' for example) in `Sunshine State' has his most-balanced treatment today about the impact of time, history, and environment on the evolution of human habitation.Specifically, development on Florida's east coast.  In a fictional area south of Jacksonville, whites and blacks are relatively  harmonious; their common challenge is the developer, who wants Edie Falco's aging restaurant and Angela Bassett's family home. Sayles, less strident than in his younger years, allows both sides to weigh in on their motives.  For example, tired of the restaurant, Falco may be ready without coercion to sell to the developers.  Bassett's mom, a conservationist, sees a possibility of dollars for her bird sanctuary if developers win.  Sayles hints that as everyone ages, new issues and needs evolve, not always related to racism or greed.Timothy Hutton's role is pivotal in this new-age approach as architect for the developers, he is not adamant about moving people off their properties but rather looks at himself as an employee doing his job with conscience.  His brief affair with Edie Falco figuratively shows the tenuous relationship between development and humanism.History has made its presence felt.  The film's ending will delight social anthropologists, and parents lose their grip on tradition, best expressed in their seedy beach home and run-down restaurant.  Sayles does not, however, go softly when it comes to the big-shot developers, headed by Alan King, who says, We created this nature on a leash. They spin platitudes about Indians and nature while they play golf far from the effects of momentous decisions parents and children make about their homes, their environment, and their personal legacies.As Flash, a character caught in between the two worlds says, There's a handful of people who run the whole deal, and the rest of us who do what they say and get paid for it.  Sayles has forsaken villains for social evolution of a sober and thoughtful kind.  "},{"Title":"FLORIDA FORAY","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not one of Sayles' best. Not a patch on Limbo and Lone Star. But it's still more than a match for most of what's released.A criticism would be that perhaps there are too many characters and plotlines. They're all interesting, and merit longer attention. Hutton is always good, and Falco builds on the promise shown in The Sopranos. "},{"Title":"bored sponges","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I am always complaining about the lack of story telling in movies.  John Sayles to the rescue.  Sayles offers us one of his typically outstanding ensemble casts who each seem to connect to their role.  We sense the ability to continue with life despite all the everyday pain.  Gordon Clapp's character offers us a glimpse of the other side, but it is done with a deft hand and a touch of humor.  James McDaniel and Angela Bassett are believable as a couple who return to face some painful memories of her youth.  Mary Alice is wonderful as Bassett's mother and has many poignant moments throughout.  Edie Falco (The Sopranos) is right on as the motelier living the hollow life handed to her, almost afraid to dream for more.  So many fine characters ... the long lost Timothy Hutton has a turn as the self-rationalized landscape architect who thinks he does only good.  Check out the camera work the first time we see Ralph Waite (the Waltons).  Mesmerizing.  Miguel Ferrer and Mary Steenburgen add to the film, and veteran Jane Alexander steals every scene.  Nice to see Clifton Davis back on the screen.  Alan King has the best line when he describes a newly developed golf course as Nature on a leash.  The cast almost plays like a 6 degrees of separation when you consider the multiple links to previous Sayles movies and TV cop shows such as NYPD Blue and Homicide. Excellent story, wonderful cast and superb direction make this one a movie lover's movie. "},{"Title":"Not Your Usual Enviro-Cause Film Yea!!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Erin Brockovich and A Civil Action are the environmental cause films that graphically and dramatically unmasked corporate irresponsibility, indeed criminality.  They're good movies about serious and real issues but they follow the Hollywood tradition of good guys versus bad guys and deciding who wears the white hat or the black hat isn't difficult.Director/writer John Sayles has given us in Sunshine State a deceptively complex film, one worth watching several times.  Starting with a rolling golf course comedy shtick dominated by Alan King (and reprised with moldy but still funny jokes during and at the end of the film) we see an oceanfront strip on Florida's East Coast that has escaped development.  The community is made up of old-time white small businesspeople and a black neighborhood that once was the only place where blacks had direct access to the beach and ocean in the days of Jim Crow.Edie Falco is Marnie, the operator of her dad's motel and restaurant. Clean and functional, it's unlikely to be listed in an AAA guide.  She hates her working life and the entreaties of her ex-husband, a Loser First Class, to involve her in pie-in-the-sky business ventures. Marnie's mom teaches drama, her dad struggles with increasing blindness.Visiting are Desiree (Angela Bassett) and her new husband.  Desiree, sent away at age 15, comes home to unfinished business with her mom so we have two intergenerational stories.  Mom maintains (or tries to) the values of a dying generation despite having abandoned her once-loved skills as a cook for the convenience of store bought fried chicken heated up in a sparkling white microwave.The center of the story is the loud arrival of representatives with a Strip, Gouge and Build development company out to convert the town and the black residential area into what much of South Florida has already experienced growth.  Sweet deals are offered with the usual soft but clearly understood threat - Sell out now or lose big time later.  Among the developer's flacks is Jack, (Timothy Hutton).  His relationship with Marnie, intrigued by his credentials as a landscape designer, is interesting without detracting from the main issues. Both play their parts very well.Hollywood has always recognized the American love of land ownership and the desire, actually the fanatical imperative,  to improve every last acre, one way or another.  Westerns have been the major cinematic vehicle showing the soul-deep attachment to land ownership with films running from the fierce (Legend of the Fall) to the comedic (Cat Ballou) to the epic (How the West Was Won).  Violence always predominates.Now John Sayles has given us the dilemma of competing values and needs. Ecological and environmental issues are recognized but they're not the whole enchilada by a long shot and therein lies the subtlety and challenge of this film.While there is a little outright criminality by the developers in trying to buy a local pol's vote, the real tension is between those who want to hold on to a way of life they profess to cherish while understanding that change - and profit - attract mightily.  These locals are, with the exception of several elderly black people, not defenders of a hallowed heritage but people suddenly caught up in an opportunity to make more money than they ever thought they could realize from their land.  Indeed, one character - the chief booster of the town's increasingly unattended historically rootless annual festival - says at its conclusion and without a hint of irony that it's hard to invent a tradition.It's the very absence of the callous and even deadly criminality marking several of the recent environmental lawsuit films that makes this story fascinating.  The ambiguities remain with the viewer after the theater lights go on.  Is there a right and a wrong here?  One character trying to buy up land responds to a charge of acting unfairly by saying that no one is being forced to sell land it's purely private choice. What does choice mean here?  The role of law in controlling such choices is, for most of the film, shadowy at best.  The ending is a bit of a cop-out but not enough to be bothersome.The interwoven personal stories are interesting because they're very well-acted and are about people and problems we understand.Were I to teach courses in Property, Real Estate or Environmental Law I'd schedule a mandatory viewing of Sunshine State for the students. The bright sun lighting up the Florida locale where the film was shot illuminates dilemmas faced in much of this country.And don't skip out without hearing the songs accompanying the end credits!!!!! "},{"Title":"3.5 stars","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has more real, three dimensional characters than two or three normal films, played by actors who are familiar and very good, but not stars. The main characters are probably Marly Temple (Edie Falco from HBO's The Sopranos) and Desiree Perry (Angela Bassett from How Stella Got Her Groove Back). Marly runs the family business, a motel and coffee shop next to the Florida coast in the small town where this film takes place, but prefers to delegate as much of the actual operation as possible. Her father (Ralph Waite from The Waltons), who started the business, is mostly blind, and her mother (Jane Alexander from Testament) teaches drama.Meanwhile Desiree has returned home for a visit with her new anesthesiologist husband (James McDaniel from ABC's NYPD Blue) after leaving town suddenly as a teenager, although about 18 years ago she did come back for one day for her father's funeral. She was interested in acting long ago, but has only found success making infomercials. Her mother (Mary Alice) still lives in town and is raising a teenage boy, who we see in the opening shot setting fire to what appears to be a sailing ship.The town is in the midst of Buccaneer Days, a small town event organized by Francine Pickney (Mary Steenburgen), with some help from her depressed husband (Gordon Clapp from NYPD Blue). The outside influence is provided by some developers, who are in town to break ground on a project and to attempt to buy up some additional property by whatever means possible. The main character among them is Jack Meadows (Timothy Hutton from Ordinary People), who gets to know Marly. The opposition to the developers is primarily organized by Dr. Lloyd (Bill Cobbs).All of the above characters and more who I haven't even mentioned are very good and interesting, as are the performances by the actors playing them and the dialog they are given to speak. The only false note I can recall was by the chairperson of the city council, who only appeared in one scene.The film was written, directed, and edited by John Sayles, whose previous work I have been negligent about seeing, except for Lone Star. I absolutely loved this film until maybe three quarters of the way through, when it seemed to start to drag a bit. I started to wonder if it was ever going to go anywhere, and while it did reveal a few mysteries, it really didn't, at least for me. That said, the film is still so much better than almost anything else you could see.Seen on 6/28/2002.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding, enjoyable movie!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sunshine State is a must-see movie that has not received thepromotion or distribution that it deserves.  The film is in turnsfunny, somber, uplifting, and disturbing.John Sayles has assembled a cast of talented stars andsupporting actors.  (The last film I saw with so many outstandingactors  was  Nashville in 1975!)  Among the excellentperformers I would give the highest honors to  Angela  Bassett, Edie Falco, Timothy Hutton, and Mary Steenburgen. Their acting alone makes the picture worth seeing.A few drawbacks to Sunshine State--the bad guys were woodenand two-dimensional.  (In fact, it was never clear to me whetherthere was one set of bad guys or two sets of bad guys.)  All theother plot lines were subtle but also clear.   In fact, the complexplot lines moved forward and intertwined exceptionally well.This is a great movie.  If you love good acting, good direction, andrelevant plot, Sunshine State is a must!  "}{"Title":"Solid Saylesmanship","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Confession I'm a John Sayles fan from way back. His movies have rich characters, ripe dialogue, good actors, interesting settings, and a point of view. This two-dozen-character omnibus about development in Florida is no exception. It's scrupulously fair and satisfyingly ambiguous in its conclusions (the characters are shaded, not all-good or all-bad; a more populist filmmaker, like Spielberg, would tell us what to think at every turn). What's more, it's consistently entertaining, pensive and perceptive in its view of the aging of people and communities, and a showcase for veteran performers, like Steenburgen and Hutton and the marvelous Mary Alice, all of whom deserve to be working more. Like many Sayles movies, it is, I expect, too subtle and low-key to enjoy a massive box-office success. Sayles respects his audience too much to stoop to the lowest common denominator. Sometimes I wish he would for a change; then he could take a zillion dollars home and make whatever movies he wants.One complaint, though The film has no visual style. You'd think the setting, a rundown Florida community, would allow for great cinematography -- it offers all kinds of opportunities to capture light and shadow, and nature and civilization at loggerheads (a chief theme). Instead, it looks like a TV show. Certainly Sayles, one of the last filmmakers on earth with a healthy respect for words, provides other compensations. But we know he's capable of a more cinematic movie than this. "}]