[{"Title":"Spy Kids 2 The Film of Lost Ambition","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After enjoying some success with the surprisingly enjoyable & cheesy Spy Kids,  Director (and all around good guy) Robert Rodriguez now brings forth a sequel, Spy Kids 2 The Island of Lost Dreams which is far less enjoyable and far more cheesy.   As a matter of fact, you'd be hard pressed to find more cheese anywhere outside of a Wisconsin dairy farm.Juni and Carmen Cortez (Daryl Sabara and Alexa Vega) are back, now officially a part of OSS, and officially recognized as Spy Kids.  But the OSS, just like every other government bureaucracy, cannot resist expanding upon a good thing, so now there is an entire army of spy kids at their disposal; but Juni and Carmen are, of course, the most renowned. Within in the first opening minutes of the film, which takes place in a truly inspired theme park, we quickly discern that Juni and Carmen have rivals the Giggle kids (Matthew O'Leary and Emily Osment) who dearly covet the Cortez' fame and status.  With help of their conniving father (Mike Judge), the Giggles do what they can, not only to surpass the Cortez family, but to humiliate them as well.Once again, we find the greatest threat to the OSS is the OSS itself, along with the internal politics and treachery which played a small but significant part in the plot of the first film.   It seems as if the OSS is more of a threat to world peace than a help, and one wonders why Uncle Sam doesn't just shut the operation down and call it a day.  Perhaps it would prevent the making of any more Spy Kids movies, which I'm beginning to think would be a very good thing.The plot revolves around a device known as a transmooker  -- which can be best described as the ultimate cloaking device, even able to cloak entire islands off the map.  It also has the wonderful ability to render all electronic devices useless, which is quite a thorn in the side of the intrepid Spy Kids, who's reliance on James Bond style fancy gadgets is only a shade less than an alcoholic's dependence on his next drink.  Of course the transmooker itself is an electronic device, but somehow is immune to its own nasty effects.  (Only in Hollywood....)So our two heroes, Juni and Carmen, locate the cloaked island, where the stolen transmooker was taken, and attempt to find it before their rivals, the Giggles kids, do.  The island turns out to be a retirement resort for every single monstrous creature ever created by Ray Harryhausen (Jason and the Argonauts, 7th Voyage of Sinbad, etc.).  Except we are told that they were created by the socially insecure and somewhat troubled scientist Dr. Romero (Steve Buscemi) who was looking for some companionship, and a portable zoo.  But of course those of us who've seen a few movies in our time know better.  During the same time, there is a completely boring and totally unnecessary sub-plot involving Carmen & Juni's parents and grandparents.  The only reason the subplot exists is to cloak this poor homage to Harryhausen as a family film.  Yeah, right.  I certainly fell for it.Hollywood films, especially action-adventures and sci-fi flicks, often  ask the audience to suspend logic and rational thought while the plot thickens.  It is the price we pay, beyond the ticket price, for the pleasure of being entertained.  But Spy Kids 2 doesn't just ask for a suspension of belief, but a wholesale slaughter of anything remotely resembling intelligence.  That's a big price to pay, and one I was unable to justify. If Daniel Rodriguiez is such a fan of Harryhausen, then he should make The 8th Voyage of Sinbad or some such thing, rather than trying to find a way to incorporate Ray's creatures into a movie allegedly about espionage.  The CGI recreations of Harryhausen's monsters was one of the more enjoyable aspects of this horrid film, but not enough to pull it out of the slimy pit in which very poor writing knocks it into.  The dialogue is stupid, even for kids to listen to.  Most of the jokes fall as flat as the acting.   Much of the cuteness and fun of the first Spy Kids film is completely lacking in the sequel.  Instead, we have a very disjointed plot, an adventure that leads to nowhere, and a subplot that should have been locked in the submarine where it mostly takes place. My Rating 4/10  "},{"Title":"Bigger, but not better, sequel","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To its credit, Spy Kids 2 does indeed display a lot of creativity and imagination, and that makes it a lot better than most family movies Hollywood makes. However, while the first Spy Kids was a fun romp that kids AND adults would enjoy, this sequel isn't as much fun.I think the biggest flaw is that this sequel is missing heart. We don't feel the warmth between the family members as we previously did. (Yes, the youthful siblings did fight and disagree a lot in the first movie, but you could still sense a solid bond between them.) There's no sense of the characters feeling danger, excitement, and a sense of adventure as they did the first time around. Instead, there is a coldness, a mechanical feeling this time, like they are very familiar (and almost bored with) with what they are experiencing, even with each other. The presence of two snotty and selfish rival child spies just furthers this somewhat sour tone.While kids might not mind this too much, I think even they will agree with the second problem I found - the story here is VERY confusing at times. For one thing, the movie seems to start at chapter two, jumping ahead of itself before the audience is set and ready. Then after that, there are a number of moments where we keep thinking Huh? How did (this character) get there all of a sudden? and Huh? What on earth happened off-screen to make (what we are now seeing) happen? Very annoying. It's all made worse by a pace that is MUCH too fast, even for an adventure of this nature.Note to Robert Rodriguez I understand you will soon start Spy Kids 3. Please not only take notice of what I've said above, but take note of Daryl Sabara (Juni). Though not a bad actor, there were a number of instances where he didn't enunciate his dialogue clearly enough, which lead me to rewind back a few seconds and use captions. Please take care of this on set, or at the very least, patch it up during post-production looping. "},{"Title":"2.5 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Carmen and Juni Cortez are official Spy Kids, working for an organization called OSS (which probably stands for something, but I'm not sure what). In the opening scenes we see the President's daughter, Alexandra (Taylor Momsen from How the Grinch Stole Christmas), as a special guest at a futuristic amusement park. When Alexandra gets herself in trouble on a ride called the Juggler (which actually juggles the cars containing the passengers!), Carmen and Juni are dispatched to help her. But then a backup Spy Kids team of Gary (Matt O'Leary from Frailty) and Gerti (Emily Osment, sister of Haley Joel) Giggles are sent in as well. The situation becomes competitive, with the Cortezes rescuing Alexandra while the Giggleses retrieve the dangerous device (the Transmooger) that she had stolen from her father's office.As in the first film, Carmen and Juni's parents are Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid (Carla Gugino), who are also spies working for OSS. Gregorio is up for a major promotion, but like his children, he is also competing with the Giggles family. The dinner at which the winner of this promotion is announced is the launching pad for the heart of the film.Other key characters returning from the first film are uncle Machete Cortez (Danny Trejo) and Felix Gumm (Cheech Marin). And then there is Doctor Romero (Steve Buscemi), who is a very interesting character.The film was actually shot using high definition video, which looked good enough to never be a distraction. It had been transferred to film for exhibition, so the normal film wear and tear issues applied, especially since I saw it near the tail end of its theatrical run.Besides using digital video, the director (Robert Rodriguez) also used another trick to save money he did almost everything himself. He was the writer, cinematographer, editor, production designer, and visual effects supervisor, and also helped produce and score the film. Apparently he did much of this work in his garage in Austin, Texas.The first film was very fun and unexpected. This one feels a *little* too much like more of the same, and it also adds a touch more gross humor than I think it needed to. It's still fun and definitely worth at least a rental, but it's not *quite* up to the level of the first film.Seen on 10/9/2002.  "},{"Title":"High energy sequel a step down from original","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first Spy Kids is an incredibly over the top but entertaining film for younger audiences and even though I still recommend this sequel I think that its just a little too over the top. Story is of course about Carmen (Alexa Vega) and Juni (Daryl Sabara) who have become top spies for their agency but now they are in competition for the best jobs by another brother/sister spy team. A gadget called the Transmooger that can shut down any defense system is stolen from the President and Juni is blamed for his carelessness. The Agency sends Gary (Matthew O'Leary) and Gerti (Emily Osment) who are the children of Donnagon (Mike Judge) who is in charge of Operations so Carmen hacks into the computer and has the mission changed so that she and Juni are sent instead. They travel underwater to an island that is invisible and inhabited by strange looking creatures but they have to hurry because Gary and Gerti will be showing up eventually to get the Transmooger that they are trying to find as well. The meet Romero (Steve Buscemi) who is hidden underground because he was the one that created all the creatures and he thinks they want to kill him. Meanwhile, Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and Ingrid Cortez (Carla Gugino) are in pursuit to find their children along with the help of Grandfather (Ricardo Montalban) and Grandmother (Holland Taylor). Not only did Robert Rodriguez direct this film but he also wrote, edited, produced, scored and did the production design. I'm sure he did other things as well and this shows that he remembers his days as a poor independent filmmaker with this type of self reliance. Rodriguez has a wild imagination and its not uncommon in his films for him to throw everything at an audience but the kitchen sink. This film is chock full of digital effects and at times it bordered on being more animated than live action. As much as I enjoyed the first film I always told people that I thought it would be even better if the story was more simplified. Have the kids in more realistic situations like James Bond but instead we got a cartoonish film with walking thumbs and gadgets that even Bond himself would laugh at. Here in this sequel it goes even more over the top with such outlandish situations that even Indiana Jones would be clueless. I couldn't decide which was more incredible, the giant monsters on the island or the fact that parents were sending their small children out on dangerous missions to save the world! Another thing I noticed was the sister of Haley Joel Osment who plays one of the other spy kids. It may be too soon to judge her but after watching Emily Osment's performance in this film she should beg her brother for acting lessons. She has an eternity to go. I am recommending this film for its wild imagination and high tech energy and their are some nice tributes to the great Ray Harryhausen but if they continue to make these sequels they might want to think about simplifying the stories. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel - great fun for adults and kids alike","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After reading some of these user reviews (especially the one about the Latino vs. White.... you have to be kidding me), I felt compelled to write one of my own.   Spy Kids 2 had everything I expected - a whole new adventure with characters from first that is fun, exciting, humorous, and still manages to teach about doing the right thing.  I also appreciated the references to the original ^_^ , and the special effects were even better than the first.The hardest people to please in this case would be my 2 daughters (4 & 7) who own the first Spy Kids on DVD and have seen it so many times they can act out the scenes down to the facial expressions and body motions.  When they saw Spy Kids 2 this past weekend they were transfixed and left the theater excited about seeing Carmen and Juni in their latest adventure.A great movie for adults and kids... I cannot recommend this sequel highly enough!  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have seen some bad movies, but this has to be in the top 5. The Special effects were the worst I have ever seen (recently), and the acting is even worse. I think a 10 year old could have wrote a better script. Like 80% of the movie looked like it was a green screen. The only movie worse than this is Jaws The Revenge. I think you should avoid this movie. I would rather watch jaws 3 than have to watch this movie again. The original was a okay movie, but this movie is not worth your time. the fight scenes are the worst I have ever scene. The jokes fell flat every time. I can not think of one good thing about this movie. Avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Okay, but the coolness of the original is lost in this movie.","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (spoilers)Spy Kids was simply a treat. It was a total surprise. Alexa Vega was just this cool person. The movie was clearly cut good and evil. Kids vs adult weirdo's.Unfortunately, Tipper Gore got hold of Spy Kids 2 and added a morality statement to it. Not that this movie is bad, but as with a lot of cartoon in the 90's, some moral is gleened from this. Montleban is completely useless in his role and I'm not sure of the role of the grandparents. It reminded me of the movie Lost in Space. the director quoted on the DVD as saying that he made the first movie so he could make the second. I had to laugh at this. Then why spend all the good parts of the series on the first movie.Some of the movie is a bit on the embarrassing side of ... ick don't watch. Will kids watch it? Probably. But I think the plot is just way to complex for this kind of movie.And now Uncle Felix is the bad guy. Figures. Almost ruins the first film. But Spy Kids was so good, I doubt that'll happen.4/10Quality 6/10 (good direction and cinematography) but bad editing. And why'd they have to squish that fun loving bug. Sheesh.Entertainment 8/10 Replayable 3/10  "},{"Title":"more fun than its occasionally silly predecessor","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As the story begins, Juni and Carmen Cortez are agents on the rise in the new Spy Kids division of the OSS. Despite all of their skills and accomplishments, they're denied a promotion in the agency as a result of blatant nepotism. Still determined to make their mark&#x97;and more importantly to upstage a pair of rival agents&#x97;they intervene in a mission to travel to a mysterious island and retrieve a sophisticated thingamajig that could be a potent threat if it falls into the wrong hands. Engaging sequel is far less cheesy than its predecessor, has a much better story, and lots of imaginative visual effects accompanied by exciting, cliffhanger action scenes. Overlong, and still corny at times, but has just enough ingredients to entertain all audiences. *** "},{"Title":"Unfloopy","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Rodriguez is talented, that talent centered on his abilities as set/art/production designer. When you have one of these film polymaths, they almost always have a single skill, a sole imaginative strength that their other roles support. Orson Welles for instance was a great visual narrator. Rodriguez isn't as novel, but comes from much the same place. He envisions scenes and marshals everything to pull them off with resources at hand.The comparison with Welles isn't too far off at least with the first `Spy Kids.' While producing good old entertainment, he did take the time to dip into some examination of fabricated narrative. The whole thing with Artificial Intelligence goes pretty deep Floop was an early lisp object system, and many such obscure references were used in his apparently offhand story of films artificially influencing imagination and behavior.Along with that were some pretty imaginative sequences embedded as preteen fantasies.But this project has none of that. None of the novel imagination. None of the self-referential subtext. No real fun, just an amusement park ride producing the predicted barf.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Really Fun","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another winner in Robert Rodriguez' budding `Spy Kids' franchise, equally as good as the first and showing real potential for the future. Rodriguez is perhaps the only filmmaker of kids' movies that seems to actually listen to what kids want and in the process delivers something every family member can indulge in--it's as delicious as chocolate, with plenty of giggles aimed at the seven to ten crowd and dazzling ideas and humor that parents can appreciate. Rodriguez has an extremely fertile imagination and while his visuals sometimes can't keep up (the digital effects are an occasional letdown) the concepts themselves are so ambitious and delightful that it's easy to look past the brief technological shortcomings. As in the first film, there are plenty of references to family films of the past (most notably `Willy Wonka & The Chocolate Factory' and the stop-action animation of Ray Harryhausen) and the overall design of both films is very similar. (Rodriguez seems to prefer shooting at twilight, giving everything an orange hue.) But it does seem more expansive, perhaps because he's creative enough to incorporate welcome new characters, such as the kids' grandparents (played with relish by Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor) and another brother-sister spy team (Emily Osment and Disney Channel favorite Matthew O'Leary) as well as fresh retakes on characters from the first film (Steve Buscemi takes on the Alan Cumming role). Rodriguez' screenplay once again takes on the theme of family but this time it's carried poignantly throughout (it got dropped rather quickly in `Spy Kids') and the result, coupled with his extraordinary vision, is a film that will thoroughly satisfy just about everyone.  "}{"Title":"Not too good besides the nostalgia","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like I said the only thing stopping me from giving this a 4/10 is nostalgia. It really brings back memories watching this. CGI is pretty bad, but what do you expect from a kids movie. I really did like the creatures in this movie. Kids and Adults will like this movie. It's pretty entertaining just don't expect anything mind-blowing. Considering this is a sequel it does make sense that this wouldn't be as fresh as the first. The acting is pretty cringe-worthy at points; mostly with the scientist character. He played it a little too over the top. But kids will think he is hilarious while adults will laugh at how bad it is. "},{"Title":"Robert Rodriguez continues his kiddie franchise","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sibling secret agents Carmen (Alexa PenaVega) and Juni Cortez (Daryl Sabara) rescue the President's bratty daughter Alexandra. Siblings Gary (Matt O'Leary) and Gerti Giggles (Emily Osment) are competing fellow OSS agents. Donnagon Giggles (Mike Judge) is promoted to director of OSS over Gregorio Cortez (Antonio Banderas). Juni is blamed for losing the Transmooker device and fired. The device is tracked to a mysterious island off of Madagascar. Gary and Gerti are assigned by their father to go to the island. Carmen and Juni arrive on the island on their own. They discover their gadgets don't work and the island is filled with weird creatures. Their parents Gregorio and Ingrid (Carla Gugino) set off to rescue their kids with Ingrid's parents (Ricardo Montalbán, Holland Taylor) as stowaways.Robert Rodriguez continues his kiddie franchise with everybody returning for the sequel. I continue to like the arguing Cortez siblings. I also like the Giggles as their foil. Rodriguez stays with his wild CGI style. There are some Ray Harryhausen-like touches such as the creatures and the warrior skeletons. I think some Rodriguez fans judge this franchise too harshly for being kids movies. This franchise exists as its own thing and should be enjoyed as such. "},{"Title":"Great family friendly movie","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I gave this movie a 9/10 because not all movies are meant to be top quality in everything. This movie was made to be a sequel to a cheesy family friendly movie and it did not disappoint. If you saw the original and liked it at all, this movie followed up tremendously in a very short amount of time. It was funnier, cheesier, and had a surprisingly good actors/actresses. Sure there were plenty of things that didn't make sense (cinemasins would have a field day with this), but to me that's just part of what makes it so fun to watch.I've recently gone back to watch old movies I watched as a kid, and this is one of the ones I think held up the most. "},{"Title":"A Good Family Sequel Film","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy Kids 2 The Island of Lost Dreams is a sequel to Spy Kids and a family fantasy adventure movie by Robert Rodriguez that tells more adventures of Carmen and Juni Cortez.It stars Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara as Carmen and Juni respectively together with Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino,Ricardo Montalbán and Steve Buscemi. The second installment of Spy Kids was definitely another joyous family adventure.Despite the fact that it has a limited production money,it looked like a big production movie with its visual effects.Also,it has also become more creative and charismatic making it more entertaining as compared to the original despite the fact that it is no longer a fresh concept to the viewers.Overall,it manages not to fall into the trap of what most sequels become - a mediocre film - as it can be comparable to the first film. "},{"Title":"This is the most awful kids movie ever","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the effects are cheap and unrealistic,the acting is so over the top i wanted to stop watching but i had to write a review on something so this movie is what i picked and its a massive stinker. the kids pulled in okay performance apart from the little girl Gerti Giggles ( Emily Osment) who won best young performer but i thought OVERRATED MOVIE AND ACTORS. this movie made more money then they had.the movie was awful the editor had to take bad acting like that and try to fix it.yet it did not work. this movie looks cheap, poorly made and i do not know how it got positive reviews this movie was worst then the cat in the hat. Why were the critics so dumb that they like this movie.this truly is the Worst Kids movie of the decade. This is the most awful kids movie ever 2/10 "},{"Title":"o.k.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the film was okay it was fun to watch but again it is stupid. in this they have to save there mom and dad who have been kidnapped and taken to the island of lost dreams but when Carmon and juny visit the fall in to a lab were they discover dinosuars, creatures and skeletons that want to kill them.they run away from the creatures as they go to rescue there mom and dad. this one didn't focus on the unrealisticness but on being fun to watch. thank goodness it wasn't 3-d it wood have had no plot. Troublemakers studio finally made a good movie. it was fun to watch. i also was glad it wasn't boring because when i get bored during a movie i pick out actors. there isn't a lot of actors in the movie. i liked this one. i gave it 4 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To be honest, I didn't pay as much attention to this sequel as I did to the first film, which is why I give it a slightly lower rating, but what I did see had some okay moments, directed by Robert Rodriguez (From Dusk Till Dawn, Sin City). This time siblings Juni (Daryl Sabara) and Carmen Cortez (Alexa Vega) are now accomplished spies along with many other kids in the world, and the mission is to go to a mysterious island where a scientist accidentally created the curious creatures with mixed features of normal animals, well, it mainly concerns destroying a powerful object. To be honest, I have just copied that plot, I didn't watch it properly, so I had no idea what was going on. Also starring Antonio Banderas as Gregorio Cortez, Carla Gugino as Ingrid Cortez, Steve Buscemi as Romero, King of the Hill creator Mike Judge as Donnagon Giggles, Danny Trejo as Machete Cortez, Richard 'Cheech' Marin as Felix Gumm, Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan's Ricardo Montalban as Grandfather, Alan Cumming as Fegan Floop, The Grinch's Taylor Momsen as Alexandra, Christopher McDonald as President of the USA, Bill Paxton as Dinky Winks and Tony Shalhoub as Alexander Minion. From the fact that I didn't see enough of it, this is mainly for the kids, I will probably have to see it again to give it a better review and rating, although that's unlikely. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Great sequel of a great movie","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spy kids is a great movie fun for kids and for adults.I expected a lot Spy kids' sequel and when I finally saw it,I passed a great time.In many cases,second parts are not at the same level of the first part,but Spy kids 2 is at the same level of the original.The humor this movie has is simply great,like the whole movie is, in fact.Spy kids 2 is a very fun sequel and,like the first part,it gives entertainment for kids and for adults.So I recommend this movie with a lot of enthusiasm because you will have a great fun time watching it.In summary,a fascinating and very entertaining experience.Rating9 "},{"Title":"Cortez the Killer","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Whilst the sheer psychedelic lunacy of the first is toned down (although Alan Cumming does return in a brief cameo), the second outing for the Cortez kids is still gloriously imaginative filmmaking shot through with a break-neck pace.  How many other kids' movies out there are knowing reworkings of 'The Island Of Dr Moreau' (check out the character of, ahem, 'Romero'), featuring Danny Trejo, Cheech Marin, Steve Buscemi, and Mike Judge in the cast?Inspired madness.  The sort of kids' movie only a deliciously warped adult with a love for the films of his / her youth could make.  Funnier, faster, slicker and smarter than the flabby Bond franchise in its entirety. "},{"Title":"Dumb sequel that does not have the fun and innocents of the original","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dumb sequel that does not have the fun and innocents of the original. Robert Rodriguez seems like he just though this up on the fly and the movie feels rushed. Despite those problems, the actors do well with what they have and come up with a decent follow up that does not beat the first movie but is decent none the less.  The special effects are good here, but the story lacks punch, and fun, and the movie cruises alone to it's predicable and watered down end. The movie feels like a bad carbon copy of the first film but does retain a few of the good points made about family and sticking together. Kudos to Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino and the rest of the cast for being good sports but other for that, there is nothing here that matches the first film. "}{"Title":"More entertaining than the first film.","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPY KIDS 2 ISLAND OF LOST DREAMS (2002)THE GOOD--This movie has a lot of energy, and kicks heaps of ass. The action sequences are a lot of fun, extremely original and well constructed. I got more involved in the action in this film than I did in the original. We get some good martial arts scenes; the essential gadget fights and even a sword-fight with skeletons. And if never looks dumb - I loved it all!--Another place that Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams improves on the original is with its humour. It isn't as slapstick here. I loved the little movie references (especially the one to the Lord of the Rings trilogy) and there was also some great physical comedy, especially during the scenes on the sea.--It was a joy to watch more imaginative ideas and intriguing new gadgets unfold in front of my eyes. I loved seeing what director/writer Robert Rodriguez came up with next and he indeed has heaps of neat concepts for spy technology.--The kids in the film are actually very good actors. They have physical roles and perform them very well. Alexa Vega is neat as Carmen; she has a great charm with the role. Daryl Sabara has more to do this time round and his character gets more likeable, probably thanks to his more charismatic performance. Emily Osment was as cute as a whistle and had the required comedic talent to boot, I loved her sarcastic performance during the bird nest scene. Taylor Momsen also gave an acceptable show, I liked her a lot which is a big surprise since she was one of the worst elements about 2000's How the Grinch Stole Christmas.THE BAD--Of course this movie is cheesy, but sometimes it just goes far too over-the-top. The battle with the monsters is a silly idea in theory and it looks silly too, and has a number of horrible lines, mostly coming from the annoying Matt O'Leary. There are also some cheesy special effects that bothered me slightly, but nothing major.--The story with the adults wasn't as interesting with the kids. I found myself annoyed that I wasn't watching Juni and Carmen when their Gregorio and Ingrid came onscreen, as well as those God-awful grandparents.--Though a lot of the humour is great (see THE GOOD), Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams still has a couple of those annoying and unfunny kiddie jokes, with poos, wees and smelly feet. These are made more noticeable by the rest of the humour being so likeable.RATING7/10 - Though it does have a few flaws, this sequel is none-the-less a big improvement on the first film. Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams is a creative, cool film that, despite what some may say, all ages will enjoy (I was watching with some teens and a couple of adults who liked it as much as I did).IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDThe Animal (3/10) The Emperor's New Groove (7/10) How the Grinch Stole Christmas (3/10) Pirates of the Caribbean The Curse of the Black Pearl (9/10) Spy Kids (5/10) "},{"Title":"A noteworthy sequel, continuing a great series...","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was a fan of Spy Kids from the start, but missed the sequel in the theaters.  After its DVD release, I was pleasantly surprised to see the kids back in action.  How Rodriguez manages to put these kids in a grown-up world and employing mature conversation and make it BELIEVABLE is comic genius.  Picking up where the first film left off (sort of), Carmen and Juni are definitely growing up and the actors that play them are definitely getting better with more experience.Alan Cumming, George Clooney, Tony Shalhoub, Carla Gugino, Antonio Banderas and Cheech Marin's appearances make the movie seem a true continuation (don't you hate when they make a sequel that just seems disjointed and out of place?), and Emily Osment, Holland Taylor, Steve Buscemi, Ricardo Montalban, Taylor Momsen, Matt O'Leary, and Bill Paxton's characters add a fresh and new feel to it as well, making it a relatively all-star ensemble cast.Sort of a different, more mature and fleshed out feeling effuses from Spy Kids 2, and the story manages to engage and entertain, as well as the continual use of incredible gadgets and captivating CGI (even the oft-criticized creatures that inhabit the Island of Dreams).  The comedy and writing improves each time, as does the acting and array of talent.  Carmen and Juni's relationship grows ever more interesting and we always LOVE to see them work it out in the end (love the telepathy).  The unusual (for Hollywood) and incredibly uplifting message of the importance of family again shines through in Rodriguez's continued fairy tale/action saga series that will undoubtedly stand the test of time as a fun cinematic gem for all ages.9-10. "},{"Title":"Better than the original!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPY KIDS 2THE ISLAND OF LOST DREAMS(2002) Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara, Antonio Bandares, and Carla Gugino. In this sequel, those two tykes are at it again! In this film, the two kids go to a lost island to retreive The transmooker device( a powerful thing that can shut down the entire world). This one was even better than the first, with cooler special effects, and more entertaining action. If you liked the first, then you'll love this one! If you didn't like the original, then you still might like this. Great family fun!Recommended! ********(out of 10)PG; action and some crude humor. "},{"Title":"Forgiving the computer graphics, quite entertaining actually.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was at first hesistant to watch this movie for one thing it's a kiddy movie. I generally dislike kiddie movies not because I might have completey lost the kid in me. My younger sister asked me to buy her the SPY KIDS 2 video CD for her birthday. Before sending her the VCD, I decided to have a peek of what it was like.Well, it was quite entertaining! I must forgive the computer graphics, they were aweful and really felt fake. The characters appear to be against a huge blue screen most of the time, even without my conscious effort of thinking about it. But then again, kids are the general audience of this film who are not likely to mind the CGI involved anyway. They were in fact colorful and funny, more than enough to satisfy them throughout the show.The set was rather decent and as one movie critic said, it won't make your kids stupider at the end of the show. However, the acting was suboptimal and needs a little more polishing and reshots I guess. In summary, a generally enjoyable summer popcorn film, especially for kids and adults alike. ) "},{"Title":"The 1st one was better....","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great in that the gadgets were so surprising, and that the CHARACTERS REMAINED THE SAME, you know the Cortez family....just a little older, Carmen and Juni...older..showing more rank at the OSS, but the plot was a little shaky.  To my it started off slowly and finally when i got the plot down it was much better, for a grand ending.  They music video in the end was great, I hope there is a soundtrack..Definatly will buy! "},{"Title":"A movie for kids, made by funky adults !","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I just see that movie in video, not that I planned to do it, but it was the only remaining DVD I never watched ;) I was really expecting some low cost, stupid, fastly done, prechewed kid movie, but I have to admit that this is not the case. It's absurd, but in the same way than Brazil is absurd. I mean that well, if you accept the initial situation, all the things make sense ! There is proofs of unleashed creativity everywhere. The special effects are very good, and the actors are used in a way they are not usually. Seeing the whole cast of a Quentin Tarentino movie (Antonio Banderas, Steve Buscemi, Danny Trejo) playing nice guys is kind of hilarious ) Very a good surprise. But well, still remember that it's just a movie for kids, made by funky adults ! "},{"Title":"Somewhat amusing; my kids enjoyed it","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film with my four daughters, aged 6 to 13.  They loved it, giggling repeatedly at the various jokes.  For my part, I found the special effects a bit too much over-the-top, but was surprised to find that, midway through the movie, I was still engaged.  The storyline is cute and there are several good lines that left me chuckling.  All in all, an OK family film (6/10). "},{"Title":"Very inventive","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez's vision is evident in this incredibly creative sequel. The visual effects work well, and there are endless surprises. All the performances are great, although Steve Buscemi seems a little wooden at times as the mad scientist. The movie also has a strong moral center. A great family film for kids of all ages. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the original.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first SPY KIDS movie was excellent, so I was glad when I heard that there was going to be a sequel.  This sequel is a good film but not quite as enjoyable as the first film.Since the first film, the OSS has expanded its Spy Kids division and our main couple, Carmen and Juni, now have rivals in the form of Gary and Gerti Giggles, a pair of odious, smug brats.  Juni also has a crush on the President's daughter.  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!At an OSS function, a bunch of weird guys with magnets on their hats steal a device called the Transmooker, which is capable of shutting down the power of any area.  Juni had the device but Gary tried to take it off him to get the glory.  Gary blames Juni for the device's loss and Juni is dismissed from the OSS.  Thanks to his elder sister's hacking skills, he is reinstated and the pair head off to find the device, with Gary and Gerti never far behind.  They are lead to an island which doesn't show up on any map and which is populated by a bunch of weird hybrid animals, created by the tortured scientist Romero.Most of the players from the first film (Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Cheech Marin, Danny Trejo, Mike Judge and of course Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara as Carmen and Juni) return and give great performances.  Alan Cumming and Tony Shalhoub even appear briefly as Floop and Minion from the first film.  The cast is added to this time as Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor appear as the kids' grandparents (who are, of course, spies as well).  Steve Buscemi has a great role as the not-so-mad scientist Romero.  Buscemi is great in this role, as he evokes sympathy a lot and is eventually able to face and overcome his fear of the creatures he has created. Bill Paxton also has a cameo as a Southern theme park owner.  He doesn't do much but is very convincing in the role.  The story is pretty good, but some things are unexplained.  Some time has clearly elapsed since Carmen and Juni's first adventure as the Spy Kids are now a major division in the OSS, but this is not referred to.  Also, Donnagon Giggles, Gary and Gerti's dad who was in the first movie, is the main villain of this film.  He fixes it so that he is named as Director of the OSS and tries to use the Transmooker to take over the world.  Mike Judge (best known as the voice of Beavis and Butthead and later KING OF THE HILL's Hank Hill) is great as Donnagon, proving that he is great at onscreen roles, but it is never explained why Donnagon turned bad.As for Gary and Gerti, well Gerti isn't too bad and she sort of redeems herself towards the end of the picture when she turns the tables on her dad, but Gary is totally loathsome.  I was glad when Carmen eventually gave him a knuckle sandwich.Taylor and Montalban are rather good as the Grandparents, but they don't add much to the plot (although an issue between them and Banderas is solved.).  There is tongue-in-cheek humour again, of course (Juni's spy watch has so  many gadgets that there was no room on it for a clock).  The special effects are okay, but some of the hybrid animals (Such as a sea serpent) just look fake.  There's a nice homage to JASON & THE ARGONAUTS as Juni fights off a group of skeletons.  As I said, not as good as the first film, but good all the same.I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Loads of fun for a kid, or an adult with a silly side!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To comment honestly, I must admit I think the original Spy Kids film was a bit better than this followup. It just seems to have more charm. But this followup is definitely an entertaining film, and one to own for those who have children that may want to watch it occasionally. possible slight SPOILERS - This one deals with a strange contraption, a Transmooger, which can disable electrical devices. Also the President and his young daughter. There is an organization called Spy Kids, and your level - 3,2, or 1 - dictates whether you are experienced enough to go on missions without an adult. Carmen and Juni go to an island which is lost because a cloaking device makes it invisible. In this installment, their parents and grandparents end up hunting for them. Steve Buscemi is a welcome addition as a slightly off-kilter scientist who experiments with animals, and creates some strange ones, like the bull-frog!The story ends up being secondary to the action and antics of the Spy Kids. There is a sword fight with skeletons on a high precipice. Dodging large sea monster while in bright orange floating devices. The neat contraptions and communications devices the kids wear and use. Robert Rodriguez who writes, directs, designs, and directs photography in his movies has a very vivid imagination.The whole film has a comic book turned into a film look to it. Many of the gadgets and special effects do not look real, but that is secondary because it is a comic book type of film. The adult actors also fit into this comic book style. The extras on this DVD are among the more interesting I have viewed. Rodriguez is noted for making full-length films on a very modest budget. One extra is a 10-minute  film school where his commentary explains how a number of scenes were done and how they were able to do them cheaply. Plus, there are several other features on various aspects of making this film, all of them interesting. Unlike many commentaries, there are no self-serving comments, instead just interesting insights into his movie-making.  "}{"Title":"Good family movie","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't like this one as well as the first installment (although both kids aged 7 & 10 liked it better) but it was still an entertaining film that really stressed the value of family and the importance of fighting for it. "},{"Title":"well...","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first I went to see this movie to go see Matt O'leary. But it turns out, it was actually a very good movie! Even though I am 13, i still enjoyed it, because it was very funny throughout the whole thing. I never took my eyes off the screen! Very fast-moving. But anyway, I recommend it to anyone whos a fan of anyone in the cast. Very good acting.  "},{"Title":"A boring stinker","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely loved the original Spy Kids, but this sequel was beyond terible.The plot was inane, but you don't go into a kids' movie expecting a great plot.  The acting was just plain bad  the kids rarely showed any emotion, the adults were completely unbelievable, and Antonio Banderas looked like a man who had gotten onto the wrong plane -- like he wanted out of there, but knew he had to stay until the flight was over.  The homage to Harryhausen was dopey and poorly executed.  The reference to Raiders of the Lost Ark would have been lost on the target audience of this movie (that is, kids); I caught it, but my kids didn't.Beyond all that, though, I thought the movie was just a bit jaded.  The gadgets in the first movie were collectively a great plot device because the kids mirrored the audience's bewilderment at the unkown world of spies presented to them.  But in the sequel, the kids seemed to take their world and its gadgets for granted, like it was a birthright rather than an amazing journey.Studios these days seem to follow the same pattern  come up with a somewhat interesting new idea in films, release sequels of that same idea until the sequels are so bad that they go straight to video.  Based on this movie, I'm praying Spy Kids 3 is straight-to-video.  "},{"Title":"A bit hokey, but fun","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my two boys, 9 & 11, to see this movie (the older one actually went twice.)  They loved it.  They came home and built all kinds of cute spy gadgets out of construction paper to put on their arms, which from my point of view was a better use of their time than seeing the movie.I can't say as I was wild about the movie myself.  It was fairly violent and the heros are only able to save the day, because they cheat and hack into a computer to get an assignment that wasn't theirs.  These weren't particularly good messages for kids.The movie was very politically correct in other ways.  The women/girls are shown as very smart and better than the boys in many respects.  The Hispanic people are the good guys, while the WASPs are the bad guys.  A person in a wheelchair is shown as competent and able to handle dangerous, difficult assignments.The characters were fairly simplistic and cartoonish, particularly the adults.  The flow of the movie wasn't too smooth as they rushed quickly from situation to situation without explaining anything too much, presumably to accommodate children with short attention spans.  Of course this is the sort of thing that shortens children's attention spans in the first place. The special effects were a lot of fun.  They allowed the heros to do all kinds of amazing things and there were a lot of nifty, CG creatures.  Nowadays, one starts to wonder how they ever made movies in the old days before there were CG creatures.  "},{"Title":"Not an interesting movie","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I took my daughter to see this movie the other day and my immediate reaction after leaving the theatre was ... Wow, that was boring.Don't get me wrong the acting was all very good, its just a shame the plot and action sequences were not as good.It had its high points in which the effects took over and made it a little more interesting to watch and as always Steve Buscemi stole the show. "},{"Title":"kids with gadgets can do great things!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing the goonies when I was a kid, and how that made me feel. At last a kid's movie with something going on! This wasn't the kid lost in the forrest who befriends a panda or some lame plot like that. It had action and adventure and it was funny (high marks for the fat kid we never saw again). Well today I wish I had kids to take to the movie, because Spy Kids 2 is definitely up there with the goonies. What a wonderful treat! Non stop fun and adventure. Great gags. Cool special effects (not ILM but still very much worth your time and money). Heroes you care about and a story that does all it can to please. yay for good films for kids! "},{"Title":"As Good as the First Movie","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was still fun even it was a sequel. The kids were still easy to believe in their fantasy roles.  The bad guys were good.The special effects could have been better.  Sometimes movies are just for fun.  Both Spy Kids movies have been this. "},{"Title":"Camel Excrement on their faces","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not good.  It was particularly vile to see 2 kids with camel excrement on their faces for the last 1 hour of the film.  There were also numerous disgusting jokes.  This film had no heart or soul while the 1st Spy Kids was a fun film.This film has no feeling for the kids that was so nice in the first one. Even my kids could not stand it but loved the 1st one.  Only the little dinosaurs were good.  Hard to believe it was made by the same director. It could have been very good but is a major failure. "},{"Title":"Weird & Fun!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked Spy Kids 1 and I like Spy Kids 2 even better.Special effects are fun and original.  The two kids actors are great.It is amusing to see Antonia Banderas who usually is so intense playing a comedic part.  The addition of the two grandparents is a nice touch.Nice film for the family! "},{"Title":"A satisfying sequel with its heart in the right place.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a very satisfying sequel to Spy Kids.  Even though I enjoyed the first film just a little bit more, Spy Kids 2 thoroughly entertained me, my wife and my three children.  As a parent, I appreciated how Carmen and Juni were in perilous situations, but it never felt like they were in deadly danger.  I also enjoyed the overall message that family unity, love and respect is always important.  Kudos to Mr. Rodriguez for including Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor.  They were cool and funny!  And is it any coincidence that the Cortez kids, their parents and their grandparents are all good-looking?  I don't think so!  Let's just say that the presence of Antonio Banderas (for my wife) and Carla Gugino (for me) made the movie that much more pleasant to watch.  )   My family looks forward to spying on the further exploits of the Cortez family next year in Spy Kids 3! "}{"Title":"Thought it was quite enjoyable!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was perfect for the under 12 years of age crowd.  My two daughters, aged 11 and 7, loved it!  I loved it less so, but it still was quite entertaining.  Who even knew Ricardo Montalban was still alive and well??  Antonio Banderas looked extremely wonderful, but I think Carla Gugino is too young for that part!   Steve Buscemi is absolute favorite of mine, but was definitely under used here!  Take this movie as it presents itself  a kids only action flick!  Cool amusement park rides, fun creatures and gadgets is what this movie has to offer.  Actually, I'm not sure why any headlining adults are in this movie at all, quite frankly, given their extremely small screen time.  On another note, Alan Cumming must be an extremely bizarre person.  How and why he chooses his movie scripts is quite beyond me (Spy Kids 1 and 2, Josie and the Pussycats, SpiceWorld, Romy and Michelles' HS reunion!). "},{"Title":"commercial mess","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This non-sequel is a whopping mess of commercialism  nothing but gadgets and bad dialogue. It was not a spy film (aside from a bit of computer hacking, there was no espionage), it was a fantasy adventure, and it didn't even do that well.Not even good enough for straight-to-video genre. Rather, it should be filed under straight-to-the-trash-can. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, but not as good as the original","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Overall it was a fair movie.  After the initial action sequence it became a bit boring until the kids reached the island.  Then it became much more interesting.  There was lots of interesting and thrilling action with a few good laughs.I thought the ending was more than a little weak.  Not that I expected a believable ending, but maybe one that was a little more consistent with the rest of the story.While the two primary children actors did a good job with their acting, the other children actors were not as good.  Most of their lines were forced and fake.I paid money to see this movie in a theater only because I have children that really enjoyed the original movie and wanted to see the sequel.  If I were alone, I would have waited and rented it on DVD or waited until it was on broadcast television... "},{"Title":"A steep dropoff in charm and wit since the first one.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids 2 is a sequel that feels like it was rushed through the pipe in order to make the most of the young actors before puberty got to them first. Although there are some laughs and a number of clever ideas (including the Harryhausen homages which reminded me I still need to rent Jason and the Argonauts for my kids), the script feels like a first draft, chock full of set pieces that don't connect to each other with any finesse, and a bunch of adolescent sneering that is more typical of less ambitious kids' movies. I'm inclined to think that Robert Rodriguez, had he been given the time, would have weeded that stuff out before shooting. What remains, happily, from the first is the charm of the two leads, Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara. Despite an extraneous and ill-conceived end credit epilogue that casts them as undercover pop stars, they have an everyday naturalism and genuine sense of humor that make a great counterpoint to most of today's glossy teen culture. Even if this series has been unfortunately lamed, one can hope that these two have long careers ahead.  "},{"Title":"Awful!  What a boring and stupid movie.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What made the first movie wonderful is missing here.  The movie is just all gadgets and special effects - no feeling and no fun.  A few scenes are just plain stupid.  The kids are fine actors.  It's too bad that there is no human interaction here.  Everything is overwhelmed by special effects. "},{"Title":"Better than the first spy kids","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie today with my brother.  And we both said it was better than the first one.  The one part I think was boring when Antonio Banderas and Ingrid Cortez was just siting there watching where carmen and juni were. That was kind of boring to me.  But I say the whole movie rocked.  I cant wait to it comes out to rent or buy. "},{"Title":"Family comes first!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I won't spoil the plot, which is quite good for a sequel. I took my boys (aged 7 and 12) to see it, as well as my brother.  We were pleased to see a very strong pro-family message. In several instances there were examples of self-sacrifice, and of choosing family above one's own selfish desires. In that regard, this is one of the best movies to take your children to see, in spite of the shitake mushroom joke! "},{"Title":"Decent but disappointing","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of the first movie, I had high hopes for this one.  While it turned out to be OK, that was about it.  Rodriguez, who wrote and produced and directed and edited this thing, should have had someone help him trim off the fat.The biggest problem was that the Spy Kids are hardly kids any more. Carmen is now a developing teenager, complete with annoying boyfriend, and Juni is not a baby any more.  The slapstick and brother-sister fighting that was so funny and genuine the first time around is practically non-existent here. And along with that, the kids have settled into their OSS-agent roles and now spew secret agent-speak.  Adolescent kids actually speaking like this  What is your assessment, Juni? and Your cloaking device is highly coveted. WHAT???  What is Carmen saying???  This stuff goes on through the WHOLE movie.  My 7-year-old was largely clueless on the plot developments thanks to utterly confusing dialogue like that.And the techno-gear that was kind of cool in the first movie, partly because they didn't know what the heck they were doing with it, is now standard issue for the two of them, and present in EVERY scene, ad nauseum.  I couldn't tell if Rodriguez was saying, kids, learn to use your wits and don't rely on technology when he addicted them to all these gadgets and then took them away on this island where no machines can function and the kids freak out. In the end, their phrase, an agent is only as good as his gadgets seems to prevail.  What was the point of the exercise, then?Also in the what was the point category, putting talented and charismatic Ricardo Montalban in as Ingrid's father seemed like a cool idea, but went nowhere.  He wound up with a bit part and did nothing interesting at all, apart from shaking hands with Antonio Banderas the way he should have in place of Anthony Hopkins in Mask of Zorro. What a waste. Ditto the cameos by both Alan Cumming and Tony Shalhoub.Spy Kids (1) was a really fun movie and perhaps it just can't be duplicated with the kids growing up.  But a good script is at least a prerequisite, and it was missing, here. "},{"Title":"Surpasses the original","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Cortaz siblings set out on a mysterious Island to find a device that could start global war, Daryl Sabara still looks the same has he did from the first one, but Alexa Vega does not no longer look like a cute kid ,has she did the first one, but instead she is beginning to look like a gorgeous teenager, who will soon start having teenage boys swooning over her, and I'm wondering how long can she keep being a spy kid. But none the less a good film for the whole family. It has great special effects, and a great supporting cast, even by Emily Osment(Haley's sister). "},{"Title":"Brutally Painful to Watch Sequel","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First things first.  I really enjoyed Spy Kids!  The FIRST movie.  Cute, funny, original, made a bit of sense, and moved along nicely.Our group of seven who paid good money to view this crap ( Spy Kids 2 ), included two adults, and five children aged 7-12.  Only the two youngest children thought this movie was fun.  The rest of us were not at all entertained.  Adults be warned, this is painful ( and too long ) to sit through, and we agonized for the ending.  Not that you could even see the end coming.  It's one of those movies full of bits and pieces of high-tech gadgets and special effects that add absolutely nothing to the storyline ( and I use the word story loosely ).  The plot is very weak.The acting was terrible, the characters unlikeable, and the conflicts they tried to develop between good and bad were hopelessly unbelievable.Finally, to cap it off, they throw in the typical meddling and unfunny grandparents who don't think Gregorio Cortez is good enough for their daughter.  More unoriginal and lame dialogue.Stay away or pay a babysitter to take children under aged 8 only.  Easily one of the worst movies I've ever seen.2/10 - and that 2 is because those under aged 8 may like it. "}{"Title":"OK for what it is (which isn't much)","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Because SK2 was made by a Latino, there may be a temptation to view the movie through a racial prism, since the good guys are Latino and the bad guys are white. This would be a mistake. While the Cortezes are Latino, ethnically, they are white, and the one who betrays them is another Latino, but of Indian ethnicity. The objects of Carmen's and Juni's crushes are white non-Latinos (Macaulay Culkin look-a-likes, too boot). And the one whom Carmen and Juni befriend is also a white non-Latino with a Latino surname.Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara have wonderful faces and are fine instinctual actors. That said, I found the movie insultingly predictable. And the less said about the horrible effects, the better. It's a shock that Rodriguez has children, since he obviously doesn't know the first thing about writing for them. While I was heartened by the film's message about the importance of being a nice person and being nice to others and how Carmen was strong and self-reliant (even though she allows Gary to compromise Juni at every turn, smacking of the Latina stereotype of standing by your man) Rodriguez lost me when he had Carmen do J-Lo at the end credits; it was so disturbing, it bordered on kiddie porn. "},{"Title":"Fun for all ages","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As family movies go, it doesn't get much better than this.  Great special effects, a storyline that keeps moving along at a fast pace, excellent actors (including Antonio Banderas and Ricardo Montalban), and hilarious in-jokes that poke fun at other movies along the way.  Even the credits are good -- don't dash out at the end of the movie or you'll miss some cool bloopers.  At the showing that I went to, everyone was laughing at different parts  Kids, teens, adults, and seniors, because there was something for everyone.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"even better than the original","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The amusement park rides are worth the trip alone.  Fun for the whole family.  It's James Bond for the middle school set, with family values, but how do you get surf on Lake Travis?  Also be sure not to miss the end titles.   "},{"Title":"Shoddy, thrown-together $equal","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Obviously, this film was rushed out to cash in on the success of the original.   But the worst part is that the filmmakers do a horrible job of disguising this fact...Most of it looks to have been filmed in front of a blue screen, in a studio.  Few or no outdoor scenes actually shot outdoors or on a nicely crafted set...just actors doing their work in front of a blue screen so they can quickly paint in scenery and props with a computer and capitalize on the popularity of the first SPY KIDS movie as soon as possible.  This just makes the whole thing look cheap.  That, and the computer animation (which there is a lot of) is awful...I've seen much better in movies much older than this, which is another sign that little care was taken in order to get the movie out fast.But the ultimate sign of how empty this affair is would have to be the script, which is unoriginal and unimaginative.  It takes a Jurassic Park type story, recycles some elements of the first movie, and throws in a sitcomish plot involving the Spy Kids grandparents.  This will probably entertain young children, but its fairly bottom-of-the-barrel entertainment. "},{"Title":"It's pure fantasy for kids of all ages, plain and simple.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In one of the better sequels of the summer, writer/director Robert Rodriguez (`From Dusk Till Dawn') shows that not all films that have a number after them have to be dull shells of the originals. Talking all of the elements that made the first one so entertaining and `super sizing' them seemed to be the idea here and it worked out well. While the parents (Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino) take a backseat in this one, the kids Carmen and Juni (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara) carry the movie that this time takes them to a land that will be a whole new world to younger audience members and seem a little familiar to the older ones. The whole island comes off as a tribute or at least modern day version of an old fantasy flick. There are skeleton warriors (a la the `Sinbad' films), a mad doctor (the always-great Steve Buscemi) with mix-and-match creatures (`The Island of Dr. Moreau'), gadgets even `Inspector Gadget' would be proud of, and vehicles that would make James Bond envious. With the mix of that and bit roles for some of yesteryear's heroes including the returning Cheech Marin (`Cheech and Chong'), Ricardo Montalban (Khan from `Star Trek II'), Bill Paxton (Chet from `Weird Science'), Mike Judge (`Beavis and Butthead'), etc., there's more than a wink and a nod for those taking their children to see the movie.  This is quite an impressive feat for Rodriguez, who somehow managed to pull this one off a little more than a year after the original was released and not have it seem too rushed. While some parts do seem a little over the top and silly, that's also the fun of it. It may be franchise-ready, but there's nothing here that looks like an ad for some toy coming out. It's pure fantasy for kids of all ages, plain and simple. This one is worth checking out on the big screen, especially considering the alternatives so far this summer.  "},{"Title":"love the gadgets","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  sequels tend to make me leary. they almost never live up to the first one. this one did. i laughed harder at this one. the kids loved it and so did the hubby. great family time together. of course the kids would love to have some of the gadgets that carmen, and juni have. but then again who wouldn't. a watch with every thing but a clock!!  shoes that are rockets. a lunch box that makes a big mac meal. here's hoping they make another spy kids movie with just as much fun and gadgets.  "},{"Title":"End Credits & Song","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that this movie is great.  The movie has lots of action in it. There are a lot of surprises in it too.  The biggest surprise was the end credits.  I have to say that Alexa Vega sang the song very wonderfully. Who knew that she was a great singer as well as a great actress.  I would have to say that people have to stay and watch the end credits for this song.Also during the end credits are some out takes from the movie.I really hope that this stays movie when it comes out on DVD. "},{"Title":"A sequel better than the original?  Kudos to Sr. Rodriguez!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I like his work, anyway.  But I thought this Spy Kids was more a movie and less an attempt to do something different.  Family and, ultimately, family values (with a decided Latin spin) is the underlining engine motoring this smooth entertainment along.  There is a bit of dead space where things drag somewhat, but after years of watching Bond films, the drag goes virtually unnoticed.  Alexa Vega (as Carmen Cortez) and, especially, Daryl Sabara (as younger brother, Juni) seem to have their characters down.  So much so, that they have matured and become more complex since we last saw them.  Juni is a wonderful creation, actually.  He is the most kid-like movie kid I can think of.  Just the right mix of real angst swapping hormonally with confidence.  Alexa's Carmen is good as well.    "},{"Title":"I had high hopes, but was rather disappointed","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids 1 was such a surprisingly fun, interesting movie, that I just couldn't wait to see Spy Kids 2.Well, as they say, things are never as good as the first time.  Sure, the gadgets were neat, and everyone's acting was okay, but the fun and delight of the first one was just missing.Maybe it is because what made the first one so clever was the fact that the kids kinda stumbled into the whole spy thing.  Well, now as full-fledged members of the Spy organization, something just was not there.Go see it if you wanna, but keep your expectations low.  I'm not saying it was awful, but it just wasn't special.  I'd give it about a C- rating on a scale of A-F. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first, but still good","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie today opening, and it wasn't what I expected. Of course, everyone loved Spy Kids. Such a clever movie. I expected this one to be terrible. But, it was really good. It basically takes off where the first one left off, with the Cortez youngsters slightly larger, as the tagline suggests real spys. But, they have some competition. Gary and Gertie Giggles, the new Spy Kids of the year, are the kid's rivals, except for Carmen Cortez, who has a secret crush on Gary. Anyways, the secret Transmooker device is stolen. It is a device used to shut off all the power in the world. It gets stolen, and the Giggles kids get the assignment to the Island Of Lost Dreams to return it. But, the Spy Kids make a little switch in plans, and end up going to the Island Of Lost Dreams, where illusions are free. The gadgets are cool, Steve Buscemi is great, Mrs. Cortez' parents arrive, which means more trouble, and I won't tell you who the real bad guy is, because that would spoil the movie. The movie is very good, and has its cleverness, but it doesn't live up to the 1st one. I hope Spy Kids 3 will be better. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Fun Sequel, although a notch below found one","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Making kid movies that also appeal to adults is a difficult task, but Spy Kids 2 does the trick. Like its predecessor, this sequel seems to have it all kid-appealing humor, special effects, intelligent wit for the adults, a quick-paced storyline to keep even the most easily bored viewer interested, and a moral message of family values that would even elicit an `aww, shucks' from the die-hard single guy that likes to see things blow up! While the first Spy Kids film was better in that it was fresh and less `deliberate' than its sequel, this in no way detracts from the endearing qualities of the latter film.Spy Kids 2 picks up where the first left of by the formalization of the `kid' division of the CSS, a loose reference to the CIA, where the Cortez family of spies - who also happen to be tastefully understated multi-ethnic - are vying for prominent positions. The father, Gregorio, played by Antonio Banderas, is expected to become the head of the agency, but is suspiciously usurped by the father of the Spy Kids' nemesis, the brother-sister team of Gary and Gerti Giggles, who are also vying to displace the Cortez children as the leading spy kids. When the disaster happens that calls each team into action to save the world from destruction, the plot becomes a three-way competition - good guy against good guy against evil-doer.The entire movie is chock full of special effects, and was shot entirely digitally, that the `texture' of the film emulsion itself feels surreal. Surprisingly, this, along with the continually repeated theme that `family' is the most important thing of all, never seem tiring. There is a thin line between passively suggestive morality statements and the cramming of said messages down one's throat. Both Spy Kids films do a very good job at avoiding both, without also sounding like a parody of such simplistic and usually sophomoric messages. In both films, kids take center stage, and are always more important than the adults. Some ideas and themes from other movies are tastefully and quietly lifted so as to not look like yet another formula flick. This didn't bother me too much either. I just found it a shame that there were so many tongue-in-cheek adult jokes that completely went over the heads of the other adults in the audience, that I had to be the sole voice laughing hysterically.My only criticism of the movie is a personal one one of my favorite actors, Steve Buscemi, has a less-than-dramatic part. He'd be great as the wildly weird villain, but you can't have everything. While it's probably exceedingly difficult to make a film that can satisfy children as well as adults, and still manage to spew messages of family values without inducing nausea, this isn't a film to compare with non-kid films. This is light-fare kid stuff, and that can't be forgotten. What's important to me is that it was thoroughly entertaining and I hope they make another. "},{"Title":"Really Fun","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another winner in Robert Rodriguez' budding `Spy Kids' franchise, equally as good as the first and showing real potential for the future. Rodriguez is perhaps the only filmmaker of kids' movies that seems to actually listen to what kids want and in the process delivers something every family member can indulge in--it's as delicious as chocolate, with plenty of giggles aimed at the seven to ten crowd and dazzling ideas and humor that parents can appreciate. Rodriguez has an extremely fertile imagination and while his visuals sometimes can't keep up (the digital effects are an occasional letdown) the concepts themselves are so ambitious and delightful that it's easy to look past the brief technological shortcomings. As in the first film, there are plenty of references to family films of the past (most notably `Willy Wonka & The Chocolate Factory' and the stop-action animation of Ray Harryhausen) and the overall design of both films is very similar. (Rodriguez seems to prefer shooting at twilight, giving everything an orange hue.) But it does seem more expansive, perhaps because he's creative enough to incorporate welcome new characters, such as the kids' grandparents (played with relish by Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor) and another brother-sister spy team (Emily Osment and Disney Channel favorite Matthew O'Leary) as well as fresh retakes on characters from the first film (Steve Buscemi takes on the Alan Cumming role). Rodriguez' screenplay once again takes on the theme of family but this time it's carried poignantly throughout (it got dropped rather quickly in `Spy Kids') and the result, coupled with his extraordinary vision, is a film that will thoroughly satisfy just about everyone.  "},{"Title":"a terrific sequel","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw the area premiere for this film in Austin last night.  It is so well done, and the special effects are amazing! I don't know if I'd say it is better than the original, but it is certainly just as great.  The kids have grown up a smidge, and the actors who play them still have their characters down pat.  I am a picky film viewer, but I must say that there is nothing bad about this film.  The music is great, the acting is well-done, the dialogue is witty and there are a few surprises thrown in.  I strongly recommend it to any fan of Rodriguez, since he was so intricately involved in anything that had to do with this film.  He calls it his home movie. If you liked Spy Kids, you have to see this sequel.  "},{"Title":"The Sequel that Satisfies","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Making kid movies that also appeal to adults is a difficult task, but Spy Kids 2 does the trick. Like its predecessor, this sequel seems to have it all kid-appealing humor, special effects, intelligent wit for the adults, a quick-paced storyline to keep even the most easily bored viewer interested, and a moral message of family values that would even elicit an `aww, shucks' from the die-hard single guy that likes to see things blow up! While the first Spy Kids film was better in that it was fresh and less `deliberate' than its sequel, this in no way detracts from the endearing qualities of both films.Spy Kids 2 picks up where the first left of by the formalization of the `kid' division of the CSS, a loose reference to the CIA, where the Cortez family of spies &#150; who also happen to be tastefully understated multi-ethnic &#150; are vying for prominent positions. The father, Gregorio, played by Antonio Banderas, is expected to become the head of the agency, but is suspiciously usurped by the father of the Spy Kids' nemesis, the brother-sister team of Gary and Gerti Giggles, who are also vying to displace the Cortez children as the leading spy kids. When the disaster happens that calls each team into action to save the world from destruction, the plot becomes a three-way competition &#150; good guy against good guy against evil-doer.The entire movie is chock full of special effects, so much so that the `texture' of the film emulsion itself feels surreal. Surprisingly, this, along with the continually repeated theme that `family' is the most important thing of all, never seem tiring. There is a thin line between passively suggestive morality statements and the cramming of said messages down one's throat. Both Spy Kids films do a very good job at avoiding both, without also sounding like a parody of such simplistic and usually sophomoric messages. In both films, kids take center stage, and are always more important than the adults. Some ideas and themes from other movies are tastefully and quietly lifted so as to not look like yet another formula flick. This didn't bother me too much either. I just found it a shame that there were so many tongue-in-cheek adult jokes that completely went over the heads of the other adults in the audience, that I had to be the sole voice laughing hysterically.My only criticism of the movie is a personal one one of my favorite actors, Steve Buscemi, has a less-than-dramatic part. He'd be great as the wildly weird villain, but you can't have everything. While it's probably exceedingly difficult to make a film that can satisfy children as well as adults, and still manage to spew messages of family values without inducing nausea, this isn't a film to compare with non-kid films. This is light-fare kid stuff, and that can't be forgotten. What's important to me is that it was thoroughly entertaining and I hope they make another. "},{"Title":"Family Fun","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On my estimation, this movie maintained what made the first one a good family movie fun for kids while bearable (maybe even fun) for adults. The feature also shines in its presentation of family, and how to work things out.If you have seen the trailers, and read the reviews you have an idea of what is in it, so I will not dwell on that. One thing I have not seen elsewhere and I recommend is that you stay on your seat when the film appears to be over, there are quite a few extra treats during and after the credits. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although not quite as tight as the first Spy Kids movie, this flick was certainly a whole lot of fun.  There is stuff in here to keep both the kids, and the adults watching happy.  The best bits include the coolest(although unrealistic) theme park in the world, a scene with 30 or so Spy Kids in action, and the 2nd half of the movie that's basically a running tribute to Ray Harryhausen.  All the actors (including the kids) have settled into their roles quite nicely...  although the inclusion of the parents (and grandparents) sometimes seems a bit forced, but it's all harmless fun. And a lot of fun it was. "},{"Title":"Face it... its Anti-American","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In a word, this movie is very bad. I first played the game when I was a mere child, only 16 years old. Then, three years later, I saw Island of Lost Dreams on the big screen. Unlike I had imagined, it was nothing like the video game. Poor special affects, and bad acting contributed to making this one of the worst movies ever made. After I saw this film, I ran into my room, and cried into my bed. (At the time, it had rocket ship blankets.) Anyway, I was obviously both hurt and befuddled that this was nothing like the beloved video game. I stayed in my room for 11 days, (47 weeks) crying because it was so bad. So if you do not want to go through that like I did, I suggest you don't waste your breath watching this movie, because I give it .05/10 (That's very very bad.) I truly love this film, way better than the poor video game, Samantha Egger is one of the few breastless actress that I like. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sequel!","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I liked this film as much as I did the first one. In fact I saw this movie in theatres before I saw the first one. I believe thats why I saw the first one. Anyway, this is another cool movie with great special effects and good acting.The junior spies return and this time they head to an mysterious island that is home to a wacky scientist and some strange creatures. But there is also trouble on the island. Also they have to deal with rival spies of their own.The acting is pretty good. Sabara and Vega matured more in this film. I was happy to see Steve Buscemi. He always make his part work.Overall, this is a great spy film. I also have to say this is the last film thats actually good in the trilogy. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"A war crime... an atrocity","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a scandalously bad film. None of the child actors should ever be allowed to act again, and neither should they be allowed to pass on their genetic material. On a serious note, the acting is appalling, the script is trash, the plot is horrible. This film will make you cringe with embarrassment. Some of the lines were so bad that I physically recolied from the screen. please don't watch this film, it isn't even bad in a way that makes it funny, it will just make you sad. When this film was made who was it supposed to appeal to? It's an insult to the intellignece of every child who has ever watched a film. To think that the director could ever have believed that anyone( including his own family) could like this film. I have written many better scripts than this one (although my scripts are actually quite good). Worst film ever!! "},{"Title":"James Bond at its best with children","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This time the kids are older and smarter and will do whatever it takes just like their parents. They want to show in this movie that they can out-spy their parents. This starts off when Juni and Carmen find that something is missing and are being asked can they find it before its too late. During their course of adventure they find many obstacles that try to keep them from accomplishing their goal of saving the day. What gives them the will power is the power that they learned from their parents in the 1st film. I enjoyed this movie because it had action that many people couldn't try into their today's world. Can Juni and Carmen do it stay tuned. "}{"Title":"A Boring Sequel, With Too Much Special Effects","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The original `Spy Kids' had a great screenplay, which combined action, comedy and special effects in right doses. The movie was excellent. This sequel has exaggerated in the special effects &#150; I myself have felt like watching (not playing) a video game &#150; and unfortunately has forgotten to have a story. The actors and actresses do not need to act, since it has special effects all the time. I was watching this movie with my wife and two teenagers (my son and my nephew) on DVD. We have to use the `REW' button at least three times along the film, since everybody has taken a nap in some part of the movie. Robert Rodriguez, please do not make `Spy Kids 3' !  My vote is five.   "},{"Title":"The kids are still alright.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids had Carmen Elizabeth Juanita Echo Sky Bravo Cortez and brother Juni going to rescue their parents; Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams has the parents going to rescue the children. But this isn't another lazy sequel - Robert Rodriguez ensures that this is several leagues ahead of the Austin Powers followups, in part because unlike Mike Myers he does more than just Xerox the script for the last one.It's not quite as fresh as the original - between the last movie and this one OSS Junior has sprung up, with Carmen and Juni no longer unique but rather the first two of a line of international Spy Kids - but one of the best things about this first sequel is how the director (writer, producer, cinematographer, editor, production designer, co-composer, visual effects supervisor, sound effects editor, end credits songwriter, re-recording mixer etc) takes a character who was a good guy in the first movie and promotes him to the status of villain; it's things like that that makes this movie both interesting and fun.Interesting because it doesn't try and talk down to kids (the secret of appealing to kids AND adults; tell a story well), or shunt aside adults, because the We Are Family message comes over without the use of a sledgehammer, and because it actually seems to extend the story rather than repeat it. Fun because the special effects are scrappy but endearing as opposed to scrappy, because of the continuing humour throughout, and because it never stops moving... though a bit more coherence in the plot (revolving around a device that can shut down the world and an island inhabited by lots of Ray Harryhausen-type creatures, an influence which gets its clearest acknowledgement in a scene with sword-wielding skeletons) would have helped. And because of its cast, though I wouldn't have minded a bit more of Danny Trejo.Not quite the same as before, but almost as good as before, this is an energetic treat all the way from the Troublemaker logo at the start to Alexa Vega performing to a crowd over the credits (This'll make you sing like Britney Lopez!). Much more fun than Cody Banks or the most recent incarnation of that grown-up spy kid, James Bond. "},{"Title":"A Solid Eight","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Eight out of ten.This movie is SO cute, and has a good number of funny moments.  It's got cameos both recognizable (Bill Paxton) and obscure (Mike Judge).  It's one of the first films shot completely digitally, and the special effects actually serve the story, rather than just being the sole reason the studio thinks you'll watch-- as with high-budget, low brains movies like Daredevil or The Core, ... or Spider-Man.  There, I said it.My one complaint is there's no character.  Carmen gets a little, as she deals with her crush on Gary Giggles.  The Dad (Banderas) gets a little, as he actively fears his in-laws.  Most everyone else is just kinda there.Still, some might say it's just a kids movie.  This is true.  And both the writing, acting AND special effects, as well as overall creativity (the MOST important thing) are not only better than the first Spy Kids, they're better than the first Harry Potter, as well.  There, I said it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the sequel to the Robert Rodriguez directed kiddie spy film. Like the original, this is an entertaining film that will thrill the kids while keeping the adults entertained. The child stars remain charismatic and appealing while the adults stay to the background for the most part, with the exception of hillarious turns by Steve Busciemi and Ricardo Montalban. While the story focuses a bit much on some silly CG monsters at the end, its still a fun film for kids of all ages. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Viva Rodriguez!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With slightly larger spies, this relatively young  series had to grow up a little, taking on more  mature jokes and story, but the all the elements  of the first film are still evident. The sister- brother fighting, the fantasy-based story  details, the wild technology, and of course,  the importance of family are all stressed once  again amidst the chaos and the outrageous  action sequences. While the special effects  don't quite mesh well with the live action, the  outlandish references to The Clash of the Titans  proved to be hilarious (if you find that kind of  thing funny). Anyway, this film proved to be a  little better than the first, considering young  actors Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara feel a little  more natural in their roles as super spy siblings.  While the whole Spy Kid network seems a little  far fetched, at least it is a movie one could take  their kids to without the repercussions of too  much violence or sexual content. "},{"Title":"A superb HD movie which was excellently cast","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have only just seen this movie, having borrowed the DVD from the library. The first thing I noticed when watching the movie was the excellent picture quality - it was 'filmed' in High Definition. Apart from really enjoying the plot of the movie, which I won't re-iterate here, (I haven't seen Spy Kids 1 or 3), I found the audio commentary on the DVD by Robert Rodriguez, fantastic. What a talented and imaginative man Robert Rodriguez is. RR went into a lot of detail about the making of the film but I also found that a lot of his comments are also appropriate in many other areas of ones life, and they don't only relate to the movie industry.The DVD contains a lot of extra special features and I found them most interesting. The movie was excellently cast and it was great to see Ricardo Montalban. Both he and Antonio Banderas were perfect for their roles.In summary it was a really enjoyable movie and I loved the subtle humor that occurred throughout. The DVD's special features are superb. "},{"Title":"Not as enjoyable as the first film due to the overuse of silly effects and the underuse of the cast but it is still quite fun","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After becoming the first kid agents, Carmen and Juni are now just part of a much bigger OSS Juniors agency and are not the toast of the town anymore. When a secret device is stolen from under their noses, Juni and Carmen are suspended from the OSS and their main rivals sent on a mission to a mysterious island to recover their loss. However Carmen and Juni learn the details of the mission and gazump Gary and Gerti Giggles by hacking the computer system. They head to the island but can they redeem themselves or will they only make it worse? Although the film has lost the novelty value of Carmen and Juni's adventure into a new world and this film has made everything bigger and more exaggerated (if indeed that was even possible). This is a bit of a problem in terms of the story and the spectacle of the film but it more or less holds it together by having the same sense of fun just about holding it together. The story is just as silly as the first film but the effects are bigger (but not better) and in a way this takes away a little from the fun &#150; the spectacle is not good enough to carry the film but at times that exactly what it feels like it is trying to do. It still has a good dose of humour and is certainly not boring for adults but it must be said that I did not find it as enjoyable as the first film.The overuse of average effects is one problem that I didn't expect with Rodriguez but there it was. Other than that the film is well directed with the silly tone of the film in mind and still moves along well enough. The cast are not as much of a help as they were in the first film. Vega and Sabara are both still good and avoid all the traps of the cute kids in films. Banderas and Gugino are less well used this time although they do share some amusing scenes with Montalban and Taylor. Cheech, Trejo, Buscemi and Cumming all show up but don't add that much &#150; although I laughed out loud at McDonald's doomed line early on in the film.Overall a colourful and noisy film that will please slightly older kids but is not as much fun as the original Spy Kids. The humour is still there and it doesn't take itself too seriously but the refreshingly different sense of amusement in the first film is not quite the same, while all the problems are just repeated again but louder. Still distracting though. "},{"Title":"The movie is great!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is great. I think it is wonderful how the SpyKids acted, they looked as if the situation was real! When I saw the first and second movie I got hooked. My family love it as well but I like it better than anyone in my family. I don't understand how Alexa and Daryl could act so well! "},{"Title":"More Demented Fun!  I want my own pet R.A.L.F.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here we have more demented fun in the mold of the first Spy Kids.  Again, the effects budget is refreshingly spent on something relatively creative for once, including some perky animated monsters.  Imagine Ray Harryhausen on speed and you've got the idea.  And be sure to stick around for the outtakes.If the long discussed (but unnecessary) Willy Wonka remake ever gets off the ground, it should look a lot like this. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun while making little sense","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids 2 is creative,energetic and and lots of fun...while at the same time being quite weird and not making a whole lot of sense.This really can't be considered a spy movie,because it goes pretty far off from the idea that these 2 kids could be spies.This movie really has more in common with the Men in Black and the Mummy movies than it does with James Bond,but it's a very enjoyable flick anyway. I got to wonder...does this spy organization,the OSS...do they take on really bizarre assignments and leave the serious work to the FBI and CIA? That's the only way this organization could ever exist.I enjoyed all the creatures made for this movie.It looks like they had alot of fun thinking them up.The gadgets are a bit far fetched but pretty damn cool anyway.The kids are solid in this and likeable.Steve Buscemi has an interesting and enjoyable role has a mad scientist.This movie is weirder and more out there than the 1st Spy Kids,which was quite weird and out there.Even though both are hard to believe,and even though both don't make too much both sense,both are great entertainment and great fun.Both movies are funny,colorful,creative and full of imagination and action.I'll give the edge to the first Spy Kids as the better movie,but spy Kids 2 is a worthy sequel. "}{"Title":"More artificial than the first film!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While I maintain the original film wasn't that good, it was still better than this film. Not that 'Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams' is god-awful or anything, it just didn't manage to eliminate the same problems the first film had. That was artificiality! This one felt even more artificial than the first! The visual f/x were fairly were decent in parts but also very fake in others, but the overall artificiality remains in the world of the Spy Kids themselves.In the sequel, we see an established Spy Kid network which our heroes, Carmen and Juni Cortez (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara), find themselves having some competition from the Giggles children (Matt O'Leary and Emily Osmont) in the field of saving the world. The plot involves the Cortez kids heading to a mysterious island to retrieve a stolen weapon, while encountering genetically mutated (very fake) looking creatures, as well as a scientist named Romero (Steve Buscemi). Now, Romero is falsely advertised as the villain of the film, but from the onset he befriends the pair. Meanwhile, the Spy Kid's parents (Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino) are looking for them with the grandparents (Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor) assisting them in their search. Now, the problem with sequel is the overall storyline is not as good as the first film. There isn't a moment where I am drawn into this bizarre universe nor am I ever afraid for the characters, or feel they are overcoming major hurdles in the adventure or amongst themselves. It is this sort of artificiality that bothers me about 'Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams'. I've seen plenty of kids movies in my time, and many feel like they are genuinely overcoming a hurdle, or uniting a family rift or having a character reach a point of enlightenment. The sub-plot with the grandparents and Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) just didn't work for me at all, although the outcome was decent, the lead up to it was rather formulaic and uninteresting. Similarly, the father/son rift subplot was extremely tame and bland. 'Spy Kids 2 Island of Lost Dreams' also lacked villain power, as if the bad guys were doing their thing for the sake of doing it, rather than establishing some madness behind their methods. The overall plot was generally disappointing.However, there is some decent moments. The interaction between Alexa Vega and Darly Sambara work very well and they are an extremely likable, but the writing and Robert Rodriguez's direction are just having them going through the motions, and the pacing of the film even seems awkward. Cheech Marin, Alan Cummings, Tony Shaloub and Danny Trejo all return in limited roles to further the plot. Mike Judge, of 'Beavis and Butthead' fame, returns in a bigger role as Donnagon Giggles and their is another decent cameo (which I won't spoil). Overall, for the reasons stated, the film lacks the magic of other kid's films and this is partly due to the artificiality of the story/characters and some of the visual effects.**½ out of *****!  "},{"Title":"a parent's dream, but great for everyone","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wildly imaginative!  a wonderful family movie, great action, great fun, lots of wit & humour.  Every parent should be thankful for a movie their kids will love and they will love too.  Excellent messages cloaked in fun. Really a great movie for anyone who still has the heart of a kid! "},{"Title":"out of this world fun","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" it is out of this world fun it is one super film there is nothing like this i never saw a movie like this in my life i think you will enjoy this world there has never been a movie like this i think you will enjoy this super film it is one funny movie this movie is a must see movie for sure there has never been a movie quite like this it is outstanding i think you will laugh out laud on this one of a kind movie this is a super DE duper film i give this movie a full 4 out of 4 stars i never saw a movie like this in my life it is a wow i hope you enjoy it because there is nothing this good it is one of a kind i think you will like it so much that you will say now we just have to watch this one of a kind movie again that is how good this movie is and i know it is one good movie i really hope you enjoy it is a perfect family film there has never been anything like this it is the bomb you just have to watch this wonderful film you want be sorry i can feel it that you want be sorry a bit have a outstanding day everyone "},{"Title":"Like the first, it's fluffy and colourful but a tad empty; faces you know and material you've seen meshing together with spasmodically interesting results.","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It must be tough having to live up to the legacy laid down by your parents in precisely the same field, that field being international espionage and cloak and dagger mystery hybridised with post-modernism, whilst desperately trying to combat raging hormonal surges from within as the question as to whether those of the opposite sex with whom you work are the most annoying people you've ever met or the most attractive. Robert Rodriguez's first sequel to his popular 2001 escapade Spy Kids sees those titular tots return, and this time they're not only older, whilst arriving with all the bother that comes with that, but they're facing stiff competition from within their own ranks on top of the pressures of having to save the entire world. Has being a secret agent ever been as hard as this? In Spy Kids, those leads were Alexa Vega's Carmen Cortez and Daryl Sabara's Juni; this time, however, they are sharing the titular billing with two newbies another brother/sister pairing with which the masculine half of the duo, Matt O'Leary's Gary Giggles, is the eldest of the two and his sister Gerti, played by Emily Osment, is the little one in a partnership of binary opposition to that of our leads. Those pesky Giggles appear out to upstage the leads at any given opportunity - when a little girl's plunge to a bloody death is both at stake and perilously close to being a shocking reality during the opening rescue, all of it playing like a condensed episode of Thunderbirds into a six minute window, one really ought not argue with one's co-workers about which of them should take down the girl and which what she had on her person.Life for the Cortez's is good at first, Juni and Carmen are decent at what they do; maintain the respect of their peers whereas father Gregorio (Banderas) is on the cusp of a big promotion. In amidst all of this, it's revealed Juni and Gregorio are loosing touch; you see, Juni has a little insect machine who's able to finish off tying his bow tie now rendering poor dad's presence and ability in this department obsolete. Aside from it being an interesting example of the notion of machinery or technology infiltrating the modern working family unit and pushing kids away from their folks, we wonder if Rodriguez will take the film down a route that'll see them come to understand one another's presence a little more as they undergo hardships before suffering epiphanies post-adventure &#x96; we are not at all surprised when he does exactly that.This adventure kicks off when something called the Transmooker Device, merely a kooky way of stating what it is a chaff accessory capable of electromagnetic pulses, is swiped from under everyone's noses at a Spy Kids gala &#x96; the taking of which is outlined as something resembling a disaster if it fell into the wrong hands. Incredibly, Juni is blamed and is kicked off of the Spy Kids programme, whereas their rivals the Giggles' are hired to effectively clean up Juni's mess and retrieve it - everything is rather glum as a result. Carmen, through her hacking expertise as is established, then manages to get them onto the mission as well, something which brings about not only a trip to a Harryhausen-inspired island full of creatures and wonder, but a redemptive quest for Juni for something he didn't really do.For the most part, it is just a bunch of kids merely running around on an island populated by creatures whose reason for being there becomes clearer much later on. Events are peppered with the potential romance between Gary and Carmen; Gary's belief that the key to her heart is through insulting her brother prominent, something that appears to actually rather turn her on - she does, after all, enjoy a good session of victimisation on poor old Juni. She later admits her feelings to Juni, speaking of her desires to draw Gary out of his flash, egotistical demeanour and into something else - what? we cannot be sure a quieter, softer type perhaps. There's a line from Gary early on about how a spy is only as good as their gadgets, which we hope Rodriguez will address, and he does, to a degree, when the Cortez's gadgetry breaks down upon entry to the island and therefore must use old fashioned logic and so-forth to win through, transcending a message through to little-uns about how you don't necessarily have to rely on electronics and gizmo's for whatever you rely on them for. It is, however, something that gets a little muddled when such a line is used as an encore by a Cortez during a later denouement.Against most odds, the best thing about the film is Steve Buscemi's character, who has all the best lines, including a great theological one about Gods and their bond with what creatures they create. He is always interesting when on screen, and whose arc about coming to terms with what it is he ill-advisedly creates after attempting to champion his own achievements, is more interesting than most other things happening. Minion, the enemy from the first pops up and we wonder why he's even there; the Spy Kids foiled him in the first, and now he's a go-to guy for advice over a cell phone. Alan Cumming's curiously named Fegan Floop, Minion's employer, is also back and is still shooting promos in front of green screen technology in what is a humorous jab at precisely what it is Rodriguez et al are doing with this very franchise; but very little of it amounts to much. The film isn't necessarily terrible and is probably better than the first, whose wacky creativity went too far and whose narrative became too droll, but you could do a lot better in terms of Rodriguez's oeuvre. "},{"Title":"It's 'Mission Incoherent' for the Cortez spy kids.","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The second adventure for mini-spies Carmen and Juni Cortez (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara), Island of Lost Dreams displays plenty of energy and creativity, plus a few nods towards classic fantasy films of yesteryear, and yet it doesn't work quite as well as its predecessor by attempting to cram far too much into proceedings.In addition to the characters returning from the original film (the Cortez kids, Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez, Uncle Machete, Felix, Fegan Floop and Alexander Minion), we also get a pair of rival spy kids, Gary and Gertie Giggles (Matt O'Leary and Emily Osment), a crazy scientist, Romero (Steve Buscemi), who creates bizarre freaks of nature by splicing together different animal genes, Gregorio Cortez's disapproving in-laws (played by Holland Taylor and Ricardo Montalban), Gary and Gertie's evil father Donnagan (Mike Judge), the President of the USA (Christopher McDonald) and his neglected (Taylor Momsen) daughter (Taylor Momsen), and theme park owner, Dinky Winks (Bill Paxton). With so many characters fighting for valuable screen time, there's scant time dedicated to telling a decent story, particularly with director Robert Rodriguez also keen to stuff in as many poorly rendered CGI set-pieces as humanly possible. In fact, there's so much going on, that poor old Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino, back again as Carmen and Juni's parents, are relegated to an unnecessary subplot about Gregorio failing to live up to the in-laws expectations.Still, if you're a fan of old-style monster movies, then the Harryhausen-inspired creatures that inhabit the titular island might go some way to make up for the incoherent plot, and some of the film's wackier visual moments (the crazy theme park; Carmen and Juni's endless drop down a volcano shaft) are inventive enough to be entertaining despite their inherent silliness.If you're a fan of the first film, there's probably enough good stuff to warrant a watch; just don't expect this sequel to be as consistently amusing as the first film. "},{"Title":"Fun sequel that does live up to its predecessor","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think this sequel is a lot of fun, not quite as good or as innovative as its predecessor but a major step up from Spy Kids 3DGame Over, which had potential but was surprisingly mediocre. For me, Spy Kids 2Island of Lost Dreams's only problems were the slow beginning and sometimes the plot was a little disjointed. But what does save it are some good laughs, some really cool gadgets and special effects and the spirited acting. And what really made it work was the chemistry between Daryl Sabarra and Alexa Vega, both are tremendous fun on screen and have excellent chemistry together. And while a tad irrelevant to the story, they perform a cute and fun song together during the end credits. The direction is tight and assured, the script is witty and funny and the film skips along effortlessly. This is a sequel worth watching, maybe not quite as good as its original, but it is fun to watch. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I don't like kid's movies at the best of times...","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Seeing Spy Kids 2 probably wasn't a very good idea for me, having not seen Spy Kids 1; but, well, I had nothing better to do. I do, however, almost wish I hadn't seen this film - as I have enormous respect for director Robert Rodriguez, and excluding the Spy Kids films; have been impressed with almost everything that the man has turned his hand to. While this film definitely shows Rodriguez's flair (the same flair which has made the rest of his films so enjoyable), Spy Kids 2 is hard to like simply because it's just so STUPID. I realise it's a kids film and I shouldn't really be watching it - but as hard as I try to think of a reason why there would be a 'Spy Kids' organisation, I just can't come up with a plausible reason. The film is also really patronising, and it's a good job, therefore, that it's aimed at such a young audience because any other group of people would surely see through the obvious ploys to get the audience to like the film. Aside from all the gadgets that the two kids have got; there isn't a lot to this movie.Rodriguez has done the neat little trick that he did with From Dusk Till Dawn and the latter two 'Mexico' films (not to mention Sin City), in that he's gathered up a bunch of 'names' to appear in the movie. Aside from Antonio Bandaras and Carla Gugino, the film also has smaller roles for the likes of Bill Paxton, Cheech Marin, Steve Buscemi, Alan Cumming and Danny Trejo. Of course, the main acting plaudits have to go to the two child stars, Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara, who aren't brilliant; but get to have a lot of fun spying and stuff. The side of the film that really lets it down is the special effects. The CGI is so bad that after a while, I actually started to think that it's bad on purpose. There's just absolutely no way that this is the best that the effects department could do. On the whole, this film isn't really meant to be taken seriously. I imagine a lot of kids will enjoy Spy Kids 2; but I didn't like it all that much. It sure beats being bored...but I felt like I was being talked down to all the way through, and that coupled with the rubbish effects and numerous ridiculous sequences make me give the film a thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Spy Dreams","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Darrell Sabara and Alexa Vega set out on another adventure, fueled by their desire to beat Gary (Matt O'Leary) and Girtie (Emily Osment)Giggles, rival spy kids. The island they end up on is filled with imaginary creatures and predictable plot twists. It's a good movie for kids with big dreams, being filled with creatures unlike and so similar to our own. It's got the bad boy crush on a rival spy for Carmen (Vega), and the problems with a girl(Taylor Momsen) who is tired of her father, the President of the United States, being to busy to spend time with her for Juni (Sabara) to deal with along with the Isle of Dreams.Adults give this movie a bad rep because they have lost the ability to imagine in this gray life. Just because you can't come up with anything interesting, don't bag on this movie. I still have an imagination, so don't spoil it for me. By the way, I'm a teenager, so shut up cagedavid. "},{"Title":"How Could You Not Like This Film?","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know why IMDb's user base is being so tough on this movie, but what really amazed me about it, besides the beautiful production design and use of special effects, is how much I know I would have loved it as a kid. It is SUCH a fun kid's fantasy, with gadgets, creatures, and the chance to act grown up without grossing people out. I liked this movie a great deal; not sure why it's being maligned here.What's also interesting about it is Robert Rodriguez's ability to work his Mexican pride into this film. While there are a lot of great Latino filmmakers, I think it's cool how Robert Rodriguez is able to put Hispanics into the mainstream, be it with his casting or with his films themselves. I've always said that as much as I love the indie heroes, the mainstream have the power to effect real change, and it's nice to see that actually at work. "},{"Title":"A terrible sequel to the terrific original","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The original spy kids was great, but spy kids 2 will put you to sleep. There's barely any action in it compared to the first. Believe me this movie was terrible, the first was great and spy kids 3 in my head nearly surpasses the original. The third is in 3-d, like many films did at a third, like they made jaws 3-d and now they're making final destination 3-d.In a 1-10, I give spy kids 2 a 2-10. I give spy kids (original) a 9-10. And I give spy kids 3 an 8-10. When I saw this movie I nearly fell asleep because of corny special effects, and bad acting from the co-stars of this movie (the acting of juni,carmen and their parents were great). Actually Steve Buscemi did a pretty good job with his role. The whole movie was crap. Do not watch spy kids 2, watch spy kids (original) and spy kids 3 instead of this one because they're just better alright.  "}{"Title":"It was good just 50% more better than the first, I guess.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids 2 The Island Of Lost Dreams - Daryl Sabara, Alexa Vega, Antonio Bandaras, Carla Gugino, Ricardo Montibaz, Alan Cumming, Tony Shaloub, Matt O'Leary, Emily Osment, That cowboy dude and, Mike Judge.The plot - The Spy Kids come back for more adventure and seek to be a good spy along with there enemies Matt O'Leary and Emily Osment win the best spy award. The OSS assigned them a mission and Juni and Carmen get mad and solve the case. They then become friends with them.What I thought - It was good hey, not only was it action it was good. The plots were better than the first I think it was way better. So it should get a third movie to show people it is still good for grown - ups and children.RATING - 10/10. "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a fan of the Spy Kids franchise, but when I first heard about this sequel, I though, 'Not again!' Too many movie franchises have been ruined by sequels. However, I decided to give it a chance when it came out on DVD. Well, as it turns out, I liked it.Spy Kids 2 The Island of Lost Dreams picks up after the events of the first film. Carmen and Juni are now part of a whole group of international Spy Kids. However, they have some competition from the Giggles, Gary and Gerti. Unfortunately, Carmen has a crush on Gary, but Juni is wary (for good reason). Anyway, Carmen and Juni go to a mysterious island, populated by strange creatures. Also, their gadgets don't work. So, the film picks up speed, and becomes an adventure film with bizarre creatures, a not quite mad scientist named Romero (played wonderfully by Steve Buscemi), and a device that can control, or destroy, the world. Also, Gregorio and Ingrid, their parents, have come looking for them, with Ingrid's parents, Grandpa and Grandma (played by Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor). The film's climax is good, not overdone. And the message is still the same Family is important.Overall, I liked this one better then the first one. It has better performances, better gadgets, and overall, a better film. Robert Rodriguez is awesome! I can't wait to see his other films (El Mariachi, Desperado, From Dusk Til Dawn, etc.) Anyway, my rating? A solid 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"a CGI movie","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has too many CGI special effects. It felt like watching a video game. And it wasn't as good as the first Spy Kids.  All the gadgets just felt old. Not to mention, the kids couldn't  even use a lot of the gadgets during the middle of the movie. The first one was good, but I don't think a sequel should have been made, especially one with such a boring plot.FINAL VERDICT  A let down sequel. I don't recommend it.  "},{"Title":"The joyless product of excessive market research","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The last one was a kids' movie through and through. But for those who may have thought otherwise - those who thought it had some real merit - Rodriguez makes a sequel about which there can be no doubt. It would be hard to find any movie that's more of a kiddie movie than this. Children may love it, or think that they do, but it has nothing to offer anyone else, and ultimately, nothing to offer children; it's cold, calculated, empty, sour to the taste.Odd that it began as a labour of love. Rodriguez, I'm sure, wanted to make both Spy Kids movies for personal, not commercial, reasons. Yet compare the result with something like The Powerpuff Girls (the movie), which DID begin life as a simple attempt to persuade children to divert money in its makers' direction. The latter is made with genuine, pleasing craft; it doesn't force its messages down our throats and it doesn't throw away all artistic integrity in playing to the gallery (or to whichever bit of the theatre the children are sitting in). It has unforced charm. Whereas Rodriguez's movie, like the original Spy Kids but more so, has no moment that's not contrived, no element that isn't the result of market research. (The worst such moment, out of many to choose from when Carmen orders the submarine to make food and she gets, complete with a large curvy M, a McDonalds big mac and fries - because kids love that kind of food, right? Alas, maybe they do, but director with the SLIGHTEST sense of principle would have given his lead character better taste, demographic focus groups be damned. That we allow advertising targeted at children is disgusting enough, but something is even more deeply wrong when someone who fancies himself an artist can, without a twinge of conscience, give the worst offender of all, McDonalds, child-targeted advertising for free.)I gather Rodriguez is planning yet another sequel. Luckily it can't continue in the same direction. There's no more room. Rodriguez crams every character from the previous film into this one (Alan Cumming's Floop makes a reappearance and has the legally required minimum of a scene to himself, just so that he can take a phone call for yet another redundant carry-over character), and introduces more besides two rival spy kids (along with a couple of dozen spy kid extras), another villain, another villain's dupe, an eight-year-old love interest, a spy grandfather and a spy grandmother. Everyone gets just enough screen time to appear, do their turn, then disappear (or just hide behind someone else). And all we could reasonably want out of a sequel (those of us who wanted a sequel at all) was to better get to know the parents; to see THEM take an active art in the action for once. It didn't happen. Carla Gugino, the mother, was so under-utilised that if I'd come to this movie cold, not having seen its predecessor, I may not have been given sufficient time to even recognise her.The state-of-the-art digital photography is predictably hideous, made worse by the fact that Rodriguez seems to be trying for bright zingy colours, and not the underexposed tones of greyish mud he ended up getting. "},{"Title":"Boring Junk","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This looks like it was made in a weekend, what garbage the plot is dumb and the set is obviously fake. Anything for a quick buck only kids will like this one. And to think there is a third sequel coming, God help us. "},{"Title":"Good as the first, better than Bond","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw a private screening of SK2 (okay, I was the only one in the matinee at this late date) and loved it. I find it easily comparable to the first - most people will love or hate both, unless you liked it once but don't want more of the same. As a kid, I'm sure this would have been among my favourite movies. As an adult, I'm surprised that I liked this at least as much as the latest Bond - in SK, the super-science is expected to be fantastical/over the top, while Bond's should have some basis in reality but doesn't anymore.Fun gadgets, realistic character interaction (siblings, in-laws/grandparents, first crush, co-workers), big-names in great supporting roles and cameos, and best of all, a skeletal swordsmen scene right from Jason & the Argonauts - I haven't been in heaven like that since the Mummy! The LotR references were great, too, along with lots of other good ideas mined from classics and more recent films. I don't mind when a movie steals elements from other films as long as it does them right, which this one does.Some people have complained about the gross-out humour, but there's not really that much, and it's totally in line with standard joke-fodder for kids that age, so if you can't accept that, you don't know kids. In fact, I thought the camel-stains showed better continuity than featured in most adult films, as it remained but was never mentioned.I'm sure kids will love it, and adults still in touch with their inner kids will, too. Be sure to stay right to the end of the credits for all the great extras! "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The fight scenes were very good, loved the gadgets, and the little creatures, also the skeleton's and skeleton fights were superb. This in my opinion is a must see movie, really good fun for parents and kid's alike. "},{"Title":"Please keep up the good work!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched SPYKIDS2 ISLAND OF LOST DREAMS last friday in the mall. It was great! So exciting. All young and adult love the movie especially the unexpected performance of Juni and Carmen.I hope that in SPYKIDS 3 You will also do the same thing... More Power! "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Film","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I groaned, and agreed to take my grandson to this movie.  What a surprise! Its one of the most entertaining films I've seen in a while.  Sure, its for kids; but an adult will not be bored. There are the good kids, and the evil kids (maybe).  There's the bad guy who wants to take over the world. There's the befuddled scientist.  There are some interesting, though perhaps not unique, creatures.  The movie is often funny, and never very scarey. And it moves right along.  The movie is fast paced, with never a dull moment, and you never know where it is going.  Yeah, you've seen this stuff before, but never quite like this.  My grandson never took his eyes off the screen; I think, because I never took my eyes off the screen. "},{"Title":"As good as the first","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though, as was said in an earlier review, Spy Kids 2 is not as tight as the original, I thought it was, nonetheless, just as much fun. True, there were more of the bad computer graphics that show the movie to be several years behind the most up-to-date, but it doesn't matter - the movie doesn't need the most realistic effects, because it's not a realistic show.With, in my opinion, a better storyline than the first movie, and a much better soundtrack, the improvements balance the losses from the first movie almost perfectly. Watching both Juni and Carmen age and mature a bit (both have romantic interests of a sort in this film) is fun, and both of them are only getting better. Daryl Sabara (Juni) is MUCH better in this film than in the first, I think, and Alexa Vega is better as well. Their leadership on the screen leads to some tense situations, but many more hilarious ones, providing the audience with a rip-roaring good time.And stay for the entire credits. It's worth it, I promise.  "}{"Title":"Steve Buscemi steals the show!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spy Kids 2 is one of the most creative sequels ever, fun from beginning to end, with Steve Buscemi turning in another perfect performance and stealing the movie out from under everyone, spies and/or kids alike.  Little Emily Osment (can't help calling her Emily JOEL Osment, because she looks so much like her brother) is adorable - in fact, everyone is, except for Alexa Vega, whose Carmen character is far too mean to Juni   (and she seems to be enjoying it much too much for it to be just acting, in my estimation). Make sure you stay through the credits, for some hilarious out-takes and more.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie for both adults & kids!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Since XXX tickets were sold out, my boyfriend and I ended up watching Spy kids 2. At first, we thought it was just another kids movie. BUT it turned out to be such a PLEASANT SURPRISE!!!!  After the movie, we just drove to BlockBuster and rented Spy kids 1.  And guess what! We loved the first one as well!!   "},{"Title":"Turning Terrible into Tolerable","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This sequel is really a puzzle in movie making possibilities - bordering on terrible, inconsistent, bad, and just plain stupid.  But somewhere, either the director or Antonio Banderas, or scriptwriters infuse the movie with a good dose of fantasy, crazy fun, humor, emotional family generational lessons to even out the movie.  As bad as this movie was, it was funny and the lines and acting in some places made the movie one of the more humorous this year.  Perhaps, the movie was so bad that it was good.The attempt to go over the top, make the sequel more of everything was abundantly clear, which isn't always a good thing.  The director and scriptwriter took risks, a number of them falling pretty much flat on their head, but at the same time, a number of ideas (Banderas, hair with seeing his mother in law for example) actually worked for me.  Thus, I enjoyed the movie even while trying to condemn it for being bad. "},{"Title":"The Spy Kids are back better then before!!","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Spy Kids are back packed with lots more action than the first! Robert's best film yet!! In this mission Carmen(Alexa Vega) and Juni(Daryl Sabara) Cortez are on a mission to find the transmooker device hidden on an island before their two evil enemys Gary(Matt O' Leary) and Gerti(Emily Osment) Giggles find it and give it to their dad(Mike Judge) who wants to take over the world! Can Carmen and Juni save their family and the whole entire world? Packed with adventure and way more action then the original! Kids will be glued to the screen watching this movie! A family film for everyone! Packed with a better, BIGGER cast then before! Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara, Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Steve Buscemi, Mike Judge, Danny Trejo, Cheech Marin, Matt O'Leary, Emily Osment, Ricardo Montalban, Holland Taylor, Alan Cumming, Taylor Momsen, and Christopher McDonald. "},{"Title":"call it spy s***...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This thing is the woooooooooooooorst movie ever. The plot sucks. I have no idea why Banderas made this movie. I think he wanted to have some time to loose or whatever. Everything is soooo damn fake. In the movie you see kids that are secret agents(the director had some imagination). But I know that Rodriguez is a great director but....THEEEEE only thing I think was good is that it lasted only 1hour, but still it can be entertaining for very young children.  "},{"Title":"Ohmigawd this was bad.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My 4-year old wanted to see this movie this weekend. So, with nothing on the calendar to excuse me, we went. Can I please have those 100 minutes of my life back? I have been rooked yet again by Hollywood's desperate attempt to produce something for kids that doesn't rely on adult innuendo to make it fly.We saw Scooby Doo &#150; horrid and filled with innuendo. We saw Master of Disguise &#150; watchable although very short and long on adult references (Scarface anyone?). I'm not a hater of children's movies. I loved Dinosaur, all of the Land Before Time series, Monsters, Inc., Jimmy Neutron and many others. They are well-directed, well-scripted (for the most part), and usually well acted. Is that so hard??!!There was a gentleman in the theatre, obviously with his granddaughter, who laughed at EVERYTHING. I'm not joking. He even laughed when the glass was clinked to get everyone's attention at the OSS party! I love comedy. I found NO comedy here. I found no entertainment. The best part of the entire thing was Emily Osment (Gerti). She was on cue, genuine and even entertaining. Daryl Sabara (Juni) couldn't even say the lines without sounding like he was reading at a second-grade level! What in the heck was Buscemi thinking to be tied up with this disaster?All I'm left with is a hole in my pocket where $18.50 used to be and the soundtrack was played too loud for me to even get a nap in. Avoid like the plague! I gave it a 3 (of 10) for being tolerable to my 4-year old.  "},{"Title":"What went wrong,.....?","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I enjoyed the first Spykids movie MUCH more than I thought I would, as it turned out to be a film that had appeal to BOTH kids and the parents forced to accompany them to the movies. It was well-written and innovative.So what went SO wrong with THIS movie??!! Completely lost was all the charm of the first. Instead of naive agents who SOMEHOW defeat evil, the once-cute kids are now James Bond Juniors with super gadgets and powers!!! And, to make things worse, the movie is even more special effects drenched than the first. It's a total mess with unlikeable characters, a muddled plot and hackneyed writing. Adults or anyone with an IQ larger than their shoe size should stay away at all costs! If you LIKED seeing a good film followed up by a HORRIBLE sequel, you might also try watching Babe Pig in the City. Somehow it manages to make an even better original movie and transform it into an even more unwatchable sequel! Only masochists should watch! "}]