[{"Title":"Adorable. Clean. Empowering. Fun.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Amidst a year of big eye candy live action movies that will make a ton of money and lame teen comedies that everybody but me seems to find funny, a movie like The Powerpuff Girls isn't likely to stand out. However, this fresh little charmer should be given more than just a fair shot. Sour disappointments like Attack of the Clones and Undercover Brother pale in comparison in many themes and elements to this bouncy, giddy movie.Last year was a very good year for computer generated animated movies. For me, though, only Shrek wowed me. Monsters, Inc. was a good if fluffy entry from Pixar. Ice Age was also amusing but left a somewhat bitter taste in my mouth. And I don't even want to know about Final Fantasy. This year, it seems that low budget traditionally animated movie reign supreme. Two appear to be duds. Hey Arnold the Movie looks like very cheap, rank garbage. I'll reserve judgement on Spirit, but needless to say I won't be rushing out to see it until it's available for rent at a video store. Then along came Lilo and Stitch, and I was overjoyed. Never before have I felt so alive watching an animated movie. Now add this movie to the good pile. It's not Lilo and Stitch, but anybody who thinks that it's trying to be needs to have their brain re-wired.Granted, you need to be a fan of the series to enjoy the movie. Or at the very least, you have to be open-minded and willing to check out what all the fuss is about. No doubt many critics will pick at the movie's cheap animation. If you're looking for Disney style brilliance, watch another movie. The Powerpuff Girls has its own brand of style that I still find to be superior to flatly drawn, pandering animated movies like much of Don Bluth and fare like Ferngully. Unlike all of the other cartoons-turned-big-screen movies, The Powerpuff Girls is actually fun to look at. Many scenes are positively magical, some where the animation becomes more fluid than usual to suit the need, others that are a dizzying array of exciting camera angles and colors. In fact this movie is so hyperactive, you'll either go WOW! or What?The scripting is a hundred times more well thought out than any of its cartoon based movies counterparts that came before, whether it's Transformers, Pokemon, or Winnie the Pooh with The Tigger Movie. The Powerpuff Girls is smooth and clean and never overstays its welcome. There are no cliches, no plot points that seem weird, no sudden changes in pacing and direction that plague many animated and live action movies. The characters are oddly endearing, and there are many moments of warmth and just feeling good. The relationship between the professor and the girls is strangely touching. Other moments are genuinely shocking, heartbreaking, and dramatic in a light kind of way. The climax is suitably ridiculous, with bad puns galore, but there is no shortage of excitement. There is also a running gag in this movie that is quite unexpected. Yet ultimately what makes this movie shine is what's buried beneath this cream puff movie, a message about accepting the gifts that make one special and unique as well as the importance of showing love to those that are shunned and deemed freaks.Fans of the series will notice that this movie is not as zany as most of the series' episodes or many of Disney's movies. Yet The Powerpuff Girls was a welcome surprise that I was initially wary of. It is a fresh, light-hearted, bouncy break from the mess that is 2002 and is quite the refreshing change from modern Disney. Go ahead and see Men in Black 2 if you want, but I, personally, would wait until Two Towers came out and skip everything else in favor of Lilo and Stitch and this movie. No, The Powerpuff Girls isn't going to floor you. But if Lilo and Stitch is this year's filet mignon, then The Powerpuff Girls is this year's peanut butter and jelly sandwich--simple, sometimes hard to swallow, but ultimately delicious. "},{"Title":"Trippy fun, but bring some aspirin","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Whoo! Talk about the noisiest roller coaster ride you can watch right now! The Powerpuff Girls is 90 minutes of bright neon fun, and it is definitely worth a look, but be warned some kids and adults may find that the experience is too loud or taxing. I think the creators of the film just didn't know when to quit at some points, throwing a thousand images at the screen in succession for over half a minute until my eyes were just watering. Like when the monkeys are screaming, I! I! I! at the screen one right after the other, or when the Girls are punching everything in sight. After a while, it gets tiresome. If you can take the ride, however, it's a hoot and a holler. There are some groovy action sequences (like the destructive game of tag), great jokes for the kids, adults, and movie-buffs (Jay and Silent Bob are there, man, just look for them!), and some amazing animation. More humor would have been welcome, however, since the Mayor doesn't get a lot of screen time and the Narrator, who's always good for a laugh, only talks at the opening and closing of the movie. Also, we don't get nearly enough of the Girls just by themselves, in moments where the audience can have some down time and just connect with the characters before moving on to the next action sequence. Despite these flaws, PPG is still a must-see flick for those who can bear down and take the pulse-pounding imagery (seriously, Grampa may have a seizure with this one). 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love the TV show, so naturally I wanted to see this movie. And I really enjoyed it, perhaps it is a little short and one or two parts are repetitive, but as a standalone and as a movie to compliment the series it succeeds wonderfully. The animation is excellent, keeping to the style of the show while adding some promising CGI to it too. The music is energetic and kitsch, the dialogue is hilarious and has a lot of wit and the story with its fast paced kick-ass action and wonderfully chaotic finale is enormously entertaining, it actually felt more than an extended TV episode. The characters are as infectious as ever, the Powerpuff Girls are still cute and Mojo Jojo is a welcome presence, while the voice work is top notch. All in all, great fun and worthy. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Sugar, Spice, and Everything Nice!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorAs a recurrent viewer of the Powerpuff Girls cartoon series I was a bit hyped to catch this film. The film is a prequel to the cartoon series and it is meant to explain how everything came about. However, the Professor isn't developed to the maximum. The film begins with his character and quickly explains how he is fed up with society and wants to create his `own' perfect race. With sugar, spice, everything nice, and Chemical X he not only created the crime fighting perfect little girls (Bubbles, Blossom, and Buttercup) but he created the evil Mojo Jojo as well. Mojo Jojo is perhaps the best part of the Powerpuff universe. It's great how his character is also suffering the same things as the heroes and he takes advantage of the situation to battle his own demons. Like the cartoon series the film is full of action, charm, and a lot of social and pop culture satire. It's fun for the whole family.RATING 3 STARS "},{"Title":"Standard drill Love the show, love the movie. Hate the show, hate the movie.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I, for one, loved the movie. There was enough action, humor and fun to make this a movie well worth paying for. The animation is simplistic, yet very cool and there are movie references galore. Quick warning for parents One of the girls utters the word damn. There's also some violence, so this isn't for real little children (under age 7). But if you can read this review, you're old enough to see it. PS-If you hate the show, don't bother. It's great, but it doesn't stray from the teevee show.  "},{"Title":"A normal Powerpuff episode ^ 2 = a tad too much? x","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I can't say I was not entertained! But the endless repetitions of everything made the movie a bit tedious at times.Genius to see all the different creatures they've created for this movie. And thankfully, the PPG's haven't been made into family friendly puppets in the movie.. they can still kick ass and even kill.. which they certainly do..!What has been done to strengthen the PPG's as a movieFar too many puns and playoffs of movie classics and far too many tedious repetitions, as mentioned. Many things for some reason happen in rhythm and sequence as they would in a musical, this is also cool sometimes in the series, but only in small portions at a time. None of these elements add too much positive stuff to the movie.In addition to special effects and an avalanche of cool characters (which are both good stuff), this is what has been done. They also seem to have changed the mayor's voice and behaviour somewhat - he's not really that funny in the movie.If the entire movie was going to be set in Townsville (except a small scene on an asteroid), it might've been better to play off the misc. genius characters from the movie, Fuzzy Lumpkins, Him, etc..And/or take the girls on a voyage/trial (underwater? space?) that would give us a different setting than (misc tall grey concrete buildings) in faceless Townsville (which we've seen so much from already).Boring, unchanging setting, some annoying bad elements, annoyingly different mayor character - BUT - some phat effects, fun story, exiting graphics and interesting characters. Ah well! 7/10  "},{"Title":"Mutant Bug-Eyed Weirdos Broke Everything","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie rocks... so hard.Not in a teenage boy XXX kinda way, or in a preteen girl Barbie and/or *NSync kind way... but in a Cinematic, Fun Time at the Movies kinda way.The cartoon is cute enough, and the writing is always sharp, with little in-jokes or puns thrown in... but how often do grown-ups watch Cartoon Network, anyway?  (not often enough, I tell you!)The film is storyboarded within an inch of its life... each little dramatic beat during the opening credits and up to the girls first day of school is hysterical.  Things start to lag again once Mojo Jojo is thrown into the mix, however...Jojo's trademark repetitive speech seems to have been toned down a bit, unfortunately, as he only occasionally breaks into those spiral Yoda-on-drugs monologues that are so fun to listen to.  (I will now speak the words that I must be speaking to you, for these are the words I will speak until they are spoken... or whatever).This is a minor complaint.  The girls have to have an arch-nemesis, and to throw Mojo Jojo into the mix (voice of Roger L. Jackson-- a genius) is the best possible choice, like when Batman fought the Joker in the original Tim Burton classic.  All other villains pale by comparison.PPG doesn't talk down to kids, nor does it make adults feel like they've wasted their time sitting through this-- like just about every Disney film has that I've seen in the last 2 years.   Too bad it didn't get marketed like a real movie.... many people are missing a real treat.Here's hoping the girls never grow up.... but if they do, I hope I marry one like Buttercup.  She kicks butt.10/10 "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sugar, spice, and everything nice that's what little girls are made of. Add in a dose of Chemical X and you've got the Powerpuff Girls, a trio of crime-fighting tots with some freaky-cool super powers and huge bug eyes. They're also really, really cute. Like, painfully cute. Sickeningly cute. But they're also tough. Kick-ass tough. 450-lightning-fast-punches-per-second tough.Actually, that's a fairly apt description of the Powerpuff Girls series itself, one of the many jewels in Cartoon Network's crown. Created by Craig McCracken in 1998, the show has equal doses of humor, heart, razor-sharp comic timing, kicky visuals, and good old-fashioned anime-style butt kicking. It's this potent mix that makes The Powerpuff Girls such a riot, and the same applies to the movie. Released in 2002 to a rather pithy box office take (read bomb), The Powerpuff Girls Movie is nonetheless a great way to kill 80 minutes.In case you're new to the whole PPG phenomenon (and it is indeed a phenomenon, now a multi-million dollar industry spawning every conceivable form of merchandise from keychains to breakfast cereals), the story goes like this Professor Utonium set out to create three perfect little girls by mixing the above ingredients. However, he accidentally spilled some of the mysterious Chemical X into the mix, and the Powerpuff Girls resulted. These little tots can fly, run at amazing speeds, shoot laser beams out of their eyes, and even talk to squirrels (well, one of them can). Unfortunately, during their first day at Pokey Oaks Kindergarten in the city of Townsville, they get into a, shall we say, rough game of tag. Much property damage ensues as the girls fly around, smash into buildings, tear up the roads, and just generally trash the whole town with their super-powered shenanigans. No one in Townsville is impressed, the girls are labeled freaks and become social outcasts, and they soon end up wandering the streets of Townsville on their own. Hope arrives in the form of a mutant monkey named Mojo JoJo, but unfortunately, Mr. JoJo is not all that he seems....The series' trademark visual style is here in full force, and with some slick CGI added to the mix in certain scenes. The colors are bright, the animation is simple and effective, and the action is as fast and furious as ever (if you thought Pokemon was seizure-inducing, get a load of THIS stuff). The plot is fast-paced and funny, with some hilarious pop-culture references that may require a second viewing to fully register (let's just say that Bill Maher and Van Halen are involved, not to mention King Kong) . The last 20 minutes of the film are delightfully chaotic (so....many....monkeys), and the whole production oozes cleverness and fun. The creators set out to make the best possible movie they could, and they've passed with flying colors.The DVD includes some great extras, including character interviews, director commentary, a behind-the-scenes featurette, and even the Dexter's Laboratory short Chicken Scratch, shown in theatres with the movie. Overall, it's a great rental, and an even better buy if you're a fan. Either way, check it out. It's by no means an animation breakthrough, but The Powerpuff Girls Movie is a blast from start to finish, and that's good enough for me.My Grade 8/10 "},{"Title":"A little dizzy, but pretty cool nevertheless.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation is so fast-paced it's actually like the staff is hyper-high on...well, sugar and spice. And the way the Girls fly around SO FAST it makes you think of those mini-M&Ms you see on TV commercials that are out for trouble and mischief-making. Just like tiny, tiny little elves with BIGGG eyes that can drive any adult hopping crazy and desperately reaching for aspirins!At least that's how someone outside the PPG fandom sees this movie...if he or she doesn't get too giddy from all the startling, dizzying sequences first, that is. But like the kindergarten-going superheroines themselves, the movie itself can be far more than meets the eye. So, it carries a pretty interesting story that reveals the very origin and birth of Townsville's littlest crimefighters and of course, it's not a pretty sight to behold. Still in their infancy, the alien-like Girls suddenly lose their scientist-parent (who's a real mouth-watering hunk!) and thus are doomed to wander the dark, lonely streets as everyone detest their very existence. And then a homeless lab monkey with distended brains picks the wee tots up and gets them to join forces with him to DO EVIL IN THE WORLD! No wonder so many parents are spooked away from this pretty bizarre film in the first place!The use of many different kinds of monkeys (with distended brains, of course!) as a part of evil force is a very interesting concept indeed and some CGI effects are fascinating to witness, like a whole army of gigantic monkey robots ravaging the innocent little city of Townsville. And the graphics aren't so bad, either. But whewww...what a ride!So this curious little movie is best made for those who like the world's oddest-looking female toddlers with eyes the size of moons and the weird, strange little world that they inhabit...for whatever reason, that is.  "},{"Title":"Good movie -- Great Evil Villain!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw the movie today and  I  really liked it.I thought that in the beginning the girls had a special bond with the Professor in a great non-Disney way. He was trying to be a good father to little girls with super powers. But near the end of this movie the Professor goes bad on this relationship in a very dumb way, by not believing them. I mean they have been truthful, good little girls up till now -- why not trust them?Mojo Jojo is surprisingly a very good (or evil) villain. He's smarter then your normal PPG villain is and is funnier than all the things in this move at times. He has an amazing voice a kind monkey to a bad monkey in minutes Rodger L. Jackson out did himself. "}{"Title":"PHENOMENAL","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Phenomenal, when phenomenal is the only word you can think of because no words can describe just how good a movie is and how good it makes you feel inside. Phenomenal, when the word isn't enough and you spread your hands in the air to try to physically display your love and devotion for a film. It was so good I almost melted. "},{"Title":"Powerpuff Rox","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just saw this movie at an early screening in Dallas and it was killer. I thought they left nothing out. A lot of kids in the theater didn't get some parts, but I thought it was written in a way that kept the attention of kids and adults. I being an adult thought it was personally hysterical. Thank goodness there weren't any hidden sexual references as there are in some other animated films for the adults to try and find. Ha! Ha! All in all, we had a good time laughing and at one point even crying. Bubbles is da bomb! "},{"Title":"Cool style, clever moments","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  rambleReally neato animation and art direction. Clever bits, like the News Flash logo on TV was the one from Sesame Street! I laughed really hard sometimes...It unfortunately didn't keep its momentum after the first 15 min (when the plot becomes important), but it's only an hour film. I did enjoy the film overall though.Relatively hard techno music in a kid's film is interesting...ramble> Recommended if you like the series, or if you're interested in seeing a seriously different animation style.  "},{"Title":"The First (And Last) Cartoon Network Movie Makes For A Unique Animated Film","Date":"17 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" So much could have gone so wrong with this - and so much ended up going so right.Fans of Powerpuff Girls (and there are still a good chunk today, even though the show stopped almost eight years ago) should know what to expect from this outing. Newcomers may feel a little cold before seeing the film, feeling that, as they don't know the Powerpuff Universe, they won't get what's going on.It manages to satisfy both groups. The majority of animated television movie adaptations don't work either because they fail to take advantage of the movie possibilities and just exist as a feature-length episode (Hey Arnold, for instance), or strive too hard to do something different and end up being unrecognizable. This film does both, and handles it with extreme care. Something about it being a prequel to the show, no doubt...The show's visual style, simplistic and heavily styled 2D animation, is faithfully replicated here, although it is more layered and a little more detailed (CGI in a few places, that blends in very well), making for an experience that, even on DVD, would never get confused with an episode of the television show.But enough about that. More about the movie. In The City Of Townsville, a crime-ridden place, Professor Utonium decides to make a perfect little girl from sugar, spice, and everything nice (he's a single adult, you see). But a little accident involving a powerful chemical happens, and he gets three girls instead the brave and brass Blossom, the bright and bubbly Bubbles, and the bold and brick-tough Buttercup. Their first day of school doesn't go so well when a game of Tag demolishes have the city, leading them to be branded as bug- eyed freaks (One of a few occasions that shows that, as already seen in the show, most of the Townsville citizens are beyond stupid). When they stumble upon Mojo Jojo, a mutated chimpanzee also affected by a recent accident, and he rallies them to help the town and make it a better place so that they will be accepted (at least, that's what he tells them), the movie truly takes off.Despite looking simple compared to the Disney animated films, the animation has a charm all of it's own. Filled with little details that are bound to make you chuckle, smile and even laugh on a few occasions, it exists in a unique animated film bubble, no other quite like it that way.The movie is a superhero origin movie, although it does some interesting things with the formula, making it not as easy to notice as some other superhero origin films. The characters remain engaging and unique. The girls themselves evoke Keane paintings in their designs, and they resemble real children very clearly. They're often hyper and sometimes dangerously impulsive, yet they do learn, and have good instincts. And their contrasting personalities make for some witty kid dialog, ensuring only an asleep viewer would get the three mixed up, even apart from some visual distinctions. Professor manages to express a worried father character, even though he is briefly shelved during the movie's middle. Following that old maximum that the villain is more interesting then the hero, Mojo Jojo easily stands high on the world's list of animated villains. Although he is mostly serious in the movie as opposed to the the mix of serious and comedic in the show, he still amuses with his funnily repetitive dialog. It was wise, therefore, to make him the movie's only villain (although Fuzzy Lumpkins and The Gangreen Gang do make cameos), for not even Him would upstage Mojo.I don't think I've quite captured how downright fun the movie is. It's a lot of fun. It's style (both visual and script) does a good chunk of it, although credit must go to the voice actors (top-notch, particularly Roger L. Jackson as Mojo), musical score (courtesy of James L. Venable, who also composed the series' score - criminally, no soundtrack for this movie was ever released), and, of course, Craig McCracken, Powerpuff creator, who directed.It juxtaposes both it's humor and drama well. The movie's climax is notably gripping, and a plethora of monkey-related jokes resulting from Mojo's evil plan are bound to have adults begging for more.Granted, the movie's not perfect. The game of Tag, while wildly imaginative, does go on a bit too long, as does a particularly touching almost-silent scene in space. Apart from the five main players, the show's other characters get rather minor roles (Mayor and Ms. Bellum only appears five times, and Ms. Keane four - not to mention a lot of the show's villains neglected), which might disappoint the fans a little. And although I found it fun, it's sense of humor and style isn't go to appeal to everyone.In the end, The Powerpuff Girls Movie makes for an incredibly entertaining 74 minutes. Not an animated masterpiece, no, but an incredibly entertaining movie - and in a non-clichéd way. "},{"Title":"This is, at least, an actual movie rather than a long episode.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The success of The Rugrats Movie inspired a whole host of animated TV shows to hit the big screen, but none of their movies - apart from the first Rugrats sequel - have had anything like the same popularity (don't bet on a sequel to Hey Arnold! The Movie turning up any time ever). The Cartoon Network's first movie The Powerpuff Girls does deserve credit for ambition; this is an origins movie (and unlike some movies based on TV shows, this does feel like a proper movie) and it's not afraid to be serious. In fact, that's the biggest problem with the tale - for a lot of the time it's almost too serious to be as much fun as its source.As explained on one TV episode (and here - score points for continuity), Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup were invented when Professor Utonium's chimp assistant pushed him while he was blending sugar, spice and everything nice, and caused him to accidentally add an extra ingredient to the concoction... Chemical X. Here we learn that their superpowers did more harm than good at first, which said chimp turned to his advantage. The movie assumes enough familiarity with the series so you'll know that the Professor threw the chimp out after the Girls were born, and that chimp (also affected in the explosion) was Mojo Jojo, who hogs the screen here as well - the show's other recurring villains either have walk-ons (notably the Gangrene Gang) or don't appear (Him is particularly missed).The low point is, sad to say, from the Powerpuffs themselves; not their characters, but the scene where they play the most destructive game of tag in history (it does set up a reason for the crime-ravaged city of Townsville to hate them, but it also goes on far, far longer than necessary). And as said before, a lot of the fun and energy of the source is lost here (as is, apart from the opening and closing scenes, the narrator) - but the design is still great, the action speedy, we're spared songs (except for the end credits) and when the movie gets its act together it's as inventive as the source at its best (it can't resist making pop culture references to the likes of Planet of the Apes and other simian jokes, but at least they're good ones). So it's hardly a pain to watch, but being a fan is a prerequisite. And happily, I remain one. Plus it's infinitely better than the Dexter's Laboratory short that precedes it.Oh yeah, they rock hard. "},{"Title":"Really good, But not as funny as the TV series.....","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really Liked the Powerpuff girls movie, but it didn't have as many laughs as the TV series usually does. Fans of the series will enjoy it, but new comers might not as much. Little kids might get scared, because there are a few scenes that have REALLY bright flashes, and Mojo Jojo looks kinda disturbing during the last 20 minutes. There is also a Dexter's Lab short before the movie! Let me warn you...it wasn't the usual Dexter charm. It was......stupid. All in all, I'll give the Movie a B, or 8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Stylish, frenetic fun for both fans and non-fans","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Powerpuff Girls movie translates well onto the big screen, and it is fun to watch the creators take full advantage of the larger format. The storyline is more epic (sharing the full origin story of the Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup), the scenery is more fully fleshed out, and the color palette is impressive. You can tell that they really took the time to make sure that the movie wasn't just a regular episode of the series thrown onto the big screen.Stylistically, the City of Townsville is portrayed with much more emotion than on the series. Both the color palette and the incidental effects make you feel that you are in a real city, at least to the extent that a cartoon representation can. The character models have been tweaked slightly to give them a little more presence, and the effect is refreshing, but not too different from the series to confuse long-time viewers.As for the plot, the origin story guarantees that new viewers will be able to follow the storyline without having seen any of the episodes of the TV show. At the same time, there are enough in-references to events from the series that fans will enjoy picking out the origins and appearances of familiar characters, settings and events. The film is not overwhelmed by in-jokes, but they are there if you look for them.The action is similar to the fast-paced series, but turned up another notch. They also make use of the higher big-screen budget to add new effects (read CGI) which would be difficult to justify on the smaller screen. However, this movie is not all action, and the pacing slows at the appropriate times (and with the help of interesting color choices) to convey the emotions and plot elements needed.This movie is a treat for kids, while enjoyable enough for adults, and it doesn't portray a talking-down feeling that some kids' movies have. The enjoyment that an adult will get depends on how much you liked the series, but I think the movie has enough entertainment for even a non-fan to enjoy. Kids may get a little scared at some of the more frenetic action scenes, but they are all played so over-the-top that I don't think they will really feel in danger. If you haven't seen the show, you should enjoy the movie, and if you like the show, you'll enjoy the movie a lot more!On the now-defunct Movie Critic scale, I give it one notch above Really Liked It (11/13), or 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Different and interesting animated movie...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  1st watched 7/5/2002 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Craig McCracken) Different and interesting animated movie based on the cult-like girl-followed popular television show on the cartoon network.  The movie is the story of how they came to be and how they decided to fight crime and evil in Townsville after their first harmless kindergarten game of tag destroyed the town.  There is a good message behind this silly superhero story despite the much-publicized violent content.  Yes, there is violent content and the evil that they face is `very' evil, but you can't help but love the well-intentioned `Professor' trying to be a parent to these over-achiever kindergartner's and his attempt to make them good little girls made of sugar, and spice and everything nice despite their super-human strengh.  Bravo for this very un-Disney like entry by the Cartoon Network!!  "},{"Title":"Kids will love it, but it's REALLY for grownups...","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Minor, creampuff spoilersPowerpuff Girls The Movie&#133;where to begin?  Well, I'm a fan, so I was admittedly pretty primed to see this, and seeing what they did with the geek reference fest of `Meet The Beat Alls,' it's anyone's guess what kind of in joke Hell McCracken and Co. have cooked up for us&#133;Speaking of in jokes, you could watch the thing for those alone (two characters talk entirely in Van Halen references, Mojo's first big scene reminds me of GHOST DOG and&#133;God help us&#133;there's even a quick scene that I swear they took from TETSUO II THE BODY HAMMER.)  All of which is well and good, but how does the thing hang together?The film actually drug a bit for me in the first reel or so, although `drug' in this context is extremely relative (I love slow, formalist work, but in a Powerpuff Girls movie, even a fairly brisk pace for the exposition seems a bit slow.)  Fortunately, that doesn't last long, although the film doesn't truly kick into high gear until Mojo Jojo enacts his evil plan&#133;&#133;and when that happens, all bets are off.  There are moments here that are so lightning fast that I was reminded of the Pokemon epilepsy syndrome watching it unprepared in a theatre with a big screen might give some a serious headache.  For the rest of us, this is probably the most energetic, spastic, and generally high octane thing that American animation has produced.  So much so, in fact, that when the film takes a bit of a breather (the girls strand themselves on an asteroid&#133;don't ask) it takes the duration of the scene for the ringing in your head to go away.So, um&#133;is it any GOOD?  Yeah.  Very.  I was actually reminded of the last 20 minutes of SHAOLIN SOCCER, in that sheer, unadulterated, uncut kickass simply flew from the screen in seemingly random (but very, very energetic) directions.  The animation isn't particularly more detailed or deeper than the show, but the visual concepts, as well as the flow of the action, are considerably more ambitious (the `Tag' sequence, wherein Blossom does that Tetsuo run-on-the-side-of-the-building thing, among others, is as kinetic as anything I've witnessed in my 33 years on this planet.) Dear God.Throw a big borderline Armageddon (the actual thing, not the movie) ending on top of this, and&#133;well&#133;I was EXHAUSTED.  It seems odd in the extreme to be emotionally drained by something this tongue in cheek, but I was seriously as dazed after PPG THE MOVIE as I was after the first time I saw AKIRA.  I wouldn't draw too many conceptual parallels between the two works (in fact, I wouldn't draw any at all,) but the feeling of having pulled an entire, catacalysmic universe into your skull via your eyeballs is the same.Which leads me to this thing way well scare the living snot out of younger kids.  Mojo looks downright unsettling in the last 20 minutes, and the sheer, hardcore intensity of the goings on might be too much for some kids under the age of, I dunno, eight (this is a guess I have no kids I know well enough to give a real estimate.)  There's nothing OBJECTIONABLE in it, but the overall whirlwind may get the panic juices flowing in the wee ones.  And an extended crying sequence, courtesy of the freakishly high-pitched Bubbles, might not help matters either (I swear, I thought I heard some digital feedback emanating from the speakers during one wail.)So&#133;use your judgment as to whether or not to take the kids (although really, it's only the YOUNG young ones I'd be concerned about,) but, IMHO, all good geeks need to see this.  "},{"Title":"Totally Hilarious","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been a big fan of the Powerpuff Girls for a long time now. As far as I can see all they are meant to be is some rock em sock em cute entertainment for the kids and also, as a bonus, some very very funny entertainment for the adults as well. There are many jokes for the adults that would go nicely over the kids heads but retain their humour for the adults.Anyone who would go to see this movie is either a) a kid or b) an adult with kids or c) just an adult fan. I fit into the last category and saw it with a friend of mine and haven't laughed so hard for quite a while. The kids in the cinema were also laughing a lot, just at different times to us.Anyone who goes along and says This movie is only to market some toys kinda missed the point of some harmless yet funny entertainment. Of course it's there to market the toys, companies are there to make as much money as they can and if they are providing a good entertaining product then who is to deny them the fruits of their labour.All up this is a hilarious movie about the genesis of the Powerpuff Girls which has never really been covered beyond the opening credits and as such was interesting for the completion of a storyline and also very funny for the foibles of 3 pre-school aged girls with super powers trying to come to terms with their place in the world.Many funny moments such as the game of tag through the city (causing massive destruction of course) as well as many many funny monkey jokes, corny as they are.Enjoy the movie, it doesn't answer any of lifes deep questions, but does fulfil one of lifes deep needs. That of laughter!9/10 "}{"Title":"A great film based on the series and one of the best animated movies ever","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love this just as much as the series and it tells when the Powerpuff Girls were created and how Jojo became Mojo Jojo. Of course that is shown in the episode Mr. Mojo's Rising right after Mojo kidnaps the Professor and tells the girls about his origin and then the Professor realizes Mojo was the worst lab assistant he ever had and threw him out after the girls were born. In the movie right after the girls were created the Professor gives them presents and discovered his accident made the girls very special and unique. This movie also shows how the girls got their room and the girls made the windows with their heat vision. After a long day of fun and work and play the girls are put to bed and they are just so cute when they're asleep. The next morning the girls are taken to Pokey Oaks Kindergarten on their first day of school and are introduced there. Later that day the girls are playing out on the playground playing hopscotch then discovered the game tag and as they started to play they started to cause destruction all over Townsville and then later that night the Professor tells them that they shouldn't use their powers in public anymore cause no one understood how special they were yet. The next day the girls are in a newspaper about the destruction they caused yesterday and Mojo in a box sees them in it and laughs maniacally cause he had a plan to use them to take over Townsville and the world and it was his first plan ever. Also when the girls came to Pokey Oaks they saw that no one wanted to play with them after yesterday. Then later that day the Professor is arrested and the girls are left at school alone and heartbroken. They go into Townsville lost from home and saw that everyone hated them and called them freaks. Now that part really got to me and made me cry. Then the girls are in an alley and meet the Gangreen Gang for the first time but didn't know how to use their powers yet. Then Mojo comes to save them and after that the girls discovered that he was a unique creature as well and Mojo asks them to help him with a project that would make the people of Townsville accept him. This also shows how Mojos lair was created and that was when the girls are tricked into building it. Then Mojo also creates this machine which needed a supply of Chemical X which made the Powerpuff Girls and when it was built Mojo takes the girls to the zoo and takes pictures of them in the primates section but really puts transporters on all the monkeys and apes and when the girls go home the Professor is brought home from jail and tells them what happened to him and the girls tell him that things would get better. But instead things got worse. Mojo transports all the primates from the zoo and uses the machine of Chemical X to turn them into super intelligent apes like himself and I mean literally like himself. XD. When the girls and the Professor see this they are shocked and the town hated the girls more then ever and the girls tried to explain but the professor didn't know who to believe and that made the girls go into exile to an asteroid on the asteroid belt. Meanwhile Mojo takes over Townsville along with all his ape army. Then when the girls heard all the cries of all the people of Townsville and the Professor being held captive by Mojo they decided to help and soon discovered what they can do with their powers and that is by fighting crime and the forces of evil. Then they started kicking all the monkeys and apes butts and then they go after Mojo. When the girls get to Mojo he uses the machine with Chemical X and turns himself into a big King Kong size of a chimp and starts reeking havoc on Townsville. Then the girls started fighting the Super Mojo and during the fight Mojo carry's the girls in one of his paws up the tallest building like King Kong climbing the Empire State Building and proposes to them to join them in his quest to conquer the world. It's also a Star Wars reference cause Mojo did it like Darth Vader. lol. The girls denied the proposal and defeated Mojo once and for all for the first time and he falls like King Kong. lol Then he falls onto a container of Antidote X which was the alternative to Chemical X. Then Mojo is revereted back to normal and Townsville and the day are saved thanks to the Powerpuff Girls. Then after that everyone in Townsville loved the Powerpuff Girls and apologize for the way they treated them. Ever since then the girls have been fighting crime and saving the world before bedtime. This movie is one of the best animated films ever and should've been nominated for an Oscar for best animated feature. I was 11 years old when I first saw this. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I really like this movie. Now this is one of those situations where if you hate the show then you will most likely hate the movie. Now this movie serves as a prequel to the show where it talks about how the girls were made and how they became the heroes of the town. But at first the people didn't take to kindly to them being around. Like when they first play tag. They go overboard and destroy the entire town. The people obviously don't take to kindly to that. Also when they are exiled from town and run away to space because they didn't know that they were actually working for Mojo Jojo who is a villain. He basically gives all monkey's in Townsville super intelligence which results in them destroying and takeover the town. It's so bad that even the professor doesn't know who to believe anymore. But after some arguing they finally agree to fight them back. And it is AWESOME! But I wish it wasn't so short because this movie is only 69 minutes. But I just simply wish there was more action. But anyway I really like this movie and the TV series. I just wish that it was a little longer and has more action. But like I said It's really good and kind of underrated to me. "},{"Title":"A Little Dorky But Still Entertaining For Kids","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A professor mixes several things together, including an experimental chemical, creating three bug-eyed, sweet little girls. Unsure of how to look after them, he names them Bubbles, Blossom and Buttercup and enrolls them in school. They are unable to handle their destructive secret powers and mayhem ensues; meanwhile the professor's old lab experiment money has been altered by the chemical and has escaped with a genius but corrupt mind, bent on purposeful destruction.This film by far beats the Lorax (2012), Frozen (2013) and Despicable Me (2010). Although a dangerous chemical is involved, there is thankfully no preachy hippie environmental messages shoved into the plot. The soundtrack is catchy and at times funny, the voice acting was good and the animation was well-done. The three girls are slightly dorky as the do-good sweethearts, and they speak in whiny baby voices sometimes, but for a children's film it remains entertaining and comedic without the use of fart jokes or bad CGI effects. It certainly isn't bad as far as kid's movies go. "},{"Title":"Feels pretty similar to the TV version","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is actually an interesting first movie showing how the Powerpuff girls and Mojo Jojo was born. It's actually rather touching to see how much the 4 actually get along on the first day. It shows they are pretty normal except for the powers. They just want to have fun and be loved. They have trouble finding acceptance in a world that doesn't really want them.I have no idea how the mayor has even been elected because he is really stupid. Nothing he does really makes any sense. When the town is being destroyed, he goes and gets a pickle instead of wanting to figure out how to stop it. And even after worlds, all he is worried about is how they 'killed' the pickles.Mojo Jojo is really odd. First off, 2 days after he is given his 'special powers,' he said that he was discriminated for too long. 2 days is not a long time.The art style is perfect to the actual TV show. I really don't see much difference between the two. Everyone has a very black large outline that makes them stand out from the background which is normally diluted tones of gray or pink. Some characters are overly round where others are exaggerated angles. In fact, the Professor is all angles, and even his shoulders don't move when he is stretching out his neck. The girls are rather chibi looking even though this is an American made cartoon. The whole show is rather stylized in itself.The voices are alright, it is an American Cartoon so you don't have the choice of hearing two different voices for the characters. Sometimes they do have problems in the script though. I can't stand how Mojo Jojo talks, mostly in third person and has a rather rapid fire monologue with a lot of pauses. Actually, it's like the old Godzilla shows where they were dubbed over in English. He also seems to use really really bad puns too. "},{"Title":"A Really Cool Movie","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a really cool movie. I watched it a whole lot as a kid and got me into The Powerpuff Girls. Before then, I used to be into Nickeloadeon but then I got into CartoonNetwork shows thanks to this movie. I was sad to find out, just like with My Little Pony Equestria Girls, that it didn't do well at the Box Office. It's sad because the Powerpuff Girls were very popular for their time, but it was because Men in Black II and Like Mike were released the same day. I didn't see it in theaters but the same year I did see the Hey Arnold Movie in theaters. What really ticks me off is that The Hot Chick made more money than this movie. Well I really recommend this movie, especially to PPG fans. "},{"Title":"Not quite as enjoyable as the TV series but still a decent 'prequel' to the show","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Growing up, one of my favourite cartoons was 'The Powerpuff Girls' that I would constantly watch after school. When I heard of this film back in 2002, I was intrigued to see it but I didn't get around to seeing it due to its possible limited release in the UK. I once watched the first part of this on YouTube and it looked promising but when I watched it in full for the first time today after having purchased it in a quad-DVD pack alongside 'Laura's Star,' 'The Magic Sword Quest for Camelot' and a collection of Dr Seuss cartoons, I was a bit disappointed since it didn't live up to my expectations that had me thinking it would be as good as the TV show.The strong points of this film include the majority of the characters from the series, the sharp, witty and smart dialogue, the beginning being a possible extension of the episode 'Mr Mojo's Rising, the girls having the same personalities as in the series, the animation being just as good as that in the series and the action sequences albeit the somewhat overlong tag sequence. I also saw it as an interesting 'prequel' to the series from the beginning but about halfway through, I didn't find it as engaging as the majority of the TV episodes although it was more entertaining than snore-fests 'Geschundfight' and 'Fuzzy Logic.' While Mojo Jojo was the main villain here, it also has brief appearances from Fuzzy Lumpkins and the Gang Green Gang. I can understand why Princess Morbucks and The Rowdyruff Boys are not included but it makes sense since they would be introduced in a time frame that would take place after the film's events. I found certain parts of this film similar to the series such as the girls being forbidden to use their superpowers (a la 'Mommy Fearest' and 'Town and Out') and Professor Utonium conducting his experiment (a la 'Mr Mojo's Rising'). Another part I like is the narration towards the end that is similar to that heard during the opening titles of the series since it adds a twist that links to Professor Utonium's opening experiment. Overall I didn't enjoy this quite as much as the series but it was still an interesting way to detail the origin of the Powerpuff Girls. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Everybody here is great; if only they'd tone it down","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Powerpuff Girls Movie plays less like a film and more like an adrenaline rush for one of the most breakneck seventy-three minutes of your life. The show, unseen by me, was an apparent cult success for Cartoon Network, around the same time as Dexter's Laboratory, along with boasting a similar fast-paced style and brightly colored atmospheres. All kidding aside, this film provided me with some of the most eventful cartoon action sequences in a long time and some of the most rapid fire events in recent memory.The film gives us the simplistic origins story of the girls who were created by a straight-laced scientist named The Professor (voiced by Tom Kane). The girls, named Blossom (Cathy Cavadini), Bubbles (Tara Strong), and Buttercup (E.G. Daily) seem to be normal, bug-eyed sprouts, but they possess uncanny superpowers such as the ability to fly, utilize eye-lasers, and run at speeds unimaginable.After their game of tag kindly ventures out beyond school boundaries and their damage to the city is ubiquitous and devastating, the girls are reprimanded by The Professor, who urges them not to use their powers in public. But when The Professor is arrested in connection with the girls' destruction, the girls must find their way home from school without guidance. They are misled into the clutches of an ominous figure named Jojo (Roger L. Jackson) who forces the girls to utilize their powers for his project that he states will bring good to society. Upon completion, it does the opposite and unleashes a hellish wrath on the town of Townsville with Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup to blame. They must figure out a way to stop Mojo Jojo, a name he adopts upon creating this plan, and win back the trust of their kind professor and the rest of the town.A majority of the skinny film is action; almost nonstop carnage. It's quite the blink-and-you-miss-it entertainment. In the day and age of genial sincerity, more often than not with a burdening life lesson, brought to you by Pixar, The Powerpuff Girls Movie is rather low on the meter of animated entertainment, but the film's concise runtime, kinetic action scenes, a cheerily comforting family story elevate it to a level that I can recommend. Its theatrical release is somewhat strange. This kind of thing could fit nicely on Cartoon Network's daytime lineup. And it would be nice if everyone would talk about three octaves lower, but these petty problems do not distract from the kinetic style and animation clearly at hand here.Voiced by Cathy Cavadini, Tara Strong, E.G. Daily, Roger L. Jackson, and Tom Kenny. Directed by Craig McCracken. "},{"Title":"A darker and complex cinematic adaptation of a great cartoon show!","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved the Powerpuff Girls. It was by far Cartoon Network's classic shows next to Dexter's Laboratory, Samurai Jack, Johnny Bravo, and more and has gained some popularity due to it's merchandising with toys, furnitures, and more. So, when Warner Brothers decided to make a cinematic adaptation of the classic show, lots of people became hyped as h*** (the same way they did when The Rugrats Movie was made and became such a success it spawned two sequels) and saw this movie with lots of anticipation.However, compared to the Rugrats movies, this movie performed very poorly at the box office despite making 16 million out of its 11 million budget that plans for making the Samurai Jack movie got canceled. Unfortunately, that doesn't mean that it's not recommended because I thought that this was a great movie and very underrated in my opinion.The animation sticks to the same style from the show and it works perfectly while adding some great CGI effects to it. The story also sticks to the origins of the Powerpuff Girls and is much darker and more complex than what you most find in most animated movies. The characters are charming and the Dialogue is hilarious it adds some wit to the story. The only two problems is that it's just too short and only two scenes were a bit contrived. It also has some kick-a** action and a finale that is so entertaining it would leave you breathless.Overall, The Powerpuff Girls Movie isn't a masterpiece, but it's still an entertaining cinematic adaptation of a great show! "},{"Title":"You'll won't see animated movies like this one!","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first heard that this film will be a prequel to the series at first I thought it wasn't a good idea to go with that direction but after seeing the trailers & TV spots I figured that the staff maybe on to something! We already know about the PPG's origin but what this film reveals is something more, it reveals what happens after the girls were born, how everything gets in center staged or come into place and see how the characters that we know develop and becoming who they are today as we know them! Also the film delivers action which made the TV show so appealing to the eyes of viewers! Something we viewers get to see rarely in animated films now-a-days along with the fact that animated films rarely get PG ratings. Practically the film is basically cleverly aimed for both fans & non-fans who don't know PPG since this will give non-fans an introduction of what PPG is all about, kids & adults alike! And as the title says... You'll won't see animated film like this! Not by a long shot you won't! "},{"Title":"Little girls against the world.","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Basically the movie tells the origin story of the powerpuff girls and how they came to be. A lonely sceientist decides to create the perfect little girl by using the ingredients, Sugar, Spice, and everything nice but the Prof's. lab assistant, Jojo pushes the Prof. causing to spill the vial of the mysterious and powerful chemical X into the formula creating those supercute and superpowerful Powerpuff Girls! Because of this, the girls have superpowers that are beyond anyone's understanding. and because of this understanding, they are shunned by the citizens of townsville after an innocent but destructive game of tag. Then utilized by the evil monkey Jojo (soon to be Mojo Jojo) to complete his evil plan of a perfect utopia.What can I say about this? the CGI animation was BRILLIANT! Literally!(like an LSD trip!) but the storyline was also brilliant. It is the perfect mixture of angnst and innocence. I loved it, my sister loved it, Even My mom took a liking for it! I'm pretty sure that anyone (execpt sourpusses) will love it. If you can take the multi-colored flashing. the girls were just cute in this movie and Mojo was really dememted, more so than on the small screen. If you liked the show than you'll love the movie. Especially if you're an anime fan because this movie has a heavy essence of anime material. and adults won't get bored either. this is a must see for anyone. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable,but I fear this might've missed its target","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie,released in 2002,some four years after the PPG phenomenon had planted its flag on Cartoon Network(and onto the merchandise of many a little girl),was meant as a sort of love letter to their fans(mostly small kids,girls particularly)as well as a sort of How it all started beginnings story.As such,this seems to be better at addressing in-jokes with the kids' parents and being sort of a less-than-subtle It's OK to be different movie for kids. Given the relentless action,explosive visuals,cacophonous sound and intense emotional tone(contrasting the usually very fun and light feel of the series),I feel like this probably missed the targets of all intended. Still,this is quite entertaining and,if you can withstand the intense elements I just described,you'll probably agree.THe beginnings for the super-charged,super hero kids is about as expected,as well-meaning but sometimes inept Professor Utonium creates the perfect little girls but accidentally mixes in Chemical X,thus making them more powerful beings. Their powers make them WAY more potent than the average kid,and their infant-like naiveté causes them to not control their powers,thus making them vilified outcasts,perfect patsies for the rogue lab chimp-turned-evil mastermind Mojo Jojo,whose plan to take over the world has a distinctly primate feel.All the familiar contributors are a part of this effortCreator and director Craig McCracken,head animator Genndy Taronofsky,voice talent Tom Kenny,TAra Strong,CAthy Cavandini,Elizabeth DAily,Tom Kane,Roger JAckson and Jennifer Hale all reprise their roles from the series. Being a grown man who enjoys his fair share of cross-references in films and t.v.,the collection of references make this film better than maybe your average kids film. I'd have to say I probably enjoy the series eps better,all things considered,but the movie for the most part does the series right. "},{"Title":"Girl power!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers* This entire movie is mostly only for little girls who enjoy the TV series. But, yes there are some of us who wanted to see this. So, what did I think? I thought it was okay. Certainly not the best animated feature ever made, but not that bad. The plot is at least better than the usual good guys beat bad guy plot that most little kids enjoy seeing over and over again. (Example I don't see how little kids could enjoy seeing 'Monsters, Inc.' and then going to the theater to see ICE AGE as they were both the same exact plot only with different characters). THE POWERPUFF GIRLS movie is daring. It has the courage to be original...I mean, honestly, how many other movies can you say have a super-evil villain trying to take over the world with an army of monkeys? So, if you're a fan of the TV show, then you should see this. I didn't think it was that bad. I thought the horrible Dexter's Laboratory cartoon at the beginning was utter crap (even though I enjoy that show aswell) but THE POWERPUFF GIRLS wasn't a bad way to spend an hour. Let's just say this isn't a masterpiece and certainly not any GANGS OF NEW YORK.THE POWERPUFF GIRLS 3/5. (average) "},{"Title":"Well Done!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's about time a movie about this great cartoon was made. The movie itself is only one hour and nine 9 minutes long, way too short all movies should be at least 80 minutes long. But luckily the DVD is loaded with extras such as interviews with the girls, Mayor & Mojo. Commentary from the characters, the behind the scenes stuff. Even a Dexter's Lab episode which is cool. And a few extra scenes that should have been left in to make the movie a little longer. But I must say this movie is very good! The animation is excellent, the music is great and the story is good. The scene where the girls are playing tag and destroying the city is shot very well the drawings and especially the sound effects really make it so professional. And the score to the movie is very good too. The movie shows how the girls were created and why they were created. Then we see them accidentally destroying the city playing tag and then the whole town hates them. So one day their walking home in the rain and Mojo saves them from the Gang Green Gang. He talks to them about how he's a freak and an outcast, they can relate and being young and naive he tricks them into building his lair on top of a volcano. He then gets them to bring over some Chemical X to make monkeys he gets from the zoo to have superpowers as well. However once the monkeys take over the city for themselves Mojo gets a bit mad. The professor seeing the girls helped Mojo wasn't sure if he believed they were really good little girls so they fly off into space to an asteroid. There they argue a bit and eventually decide to come back and fight off the evil monkeys and save Townsville! The fighting scenes when fighting off all the different monkeys is pretty cool too. Mojo gets a hold of some chemical x himself and makes himself huge like King Kong. He fights off the girls for a while and wants them to join him to take over the world. This really upsets the girls so they fight off Mojo and then the Professor brings along some chemical x which makes Mojo small again. Then the people of Townsville apologize for being mean to the girls and ask if they'll help them save the day in the future! Overall a pretty good movie, but I'm biased cause I love the cartoon. Fuzzy Lumpkins isn't really in the movie and neither is Her which is good cause those characters suck. But there isn't enough of the Gang Green Gang, those are my favorite villians. And I'm a 20 year old male so yes this movie can be appealing to anybody who wants to have fun. But make sure you pick up the DVD cause all the extras make it worth every penny! I hope the rumors of a Johnny Bravo movie are true! I'll give this an 8! "},{"Title":"Well Balanced cartoon","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I must confess i was never a fan of powerpuff girls, i may have seen some episodes but not more than that. I've just had a surprise, i am 16 years old and i really enjoyed the movie, so did my sister ( 10 years old ).The way it was designed , the good story, the funny jokes makes this movie a rousing success on every level. People say the action scenes are a bit overlong, i agree with that, but as well as it may look a bit like that it is never boring, so i will do justice to this nice little film ) ---> 8/10Whether you like cartoons or not i am positive it is worth a watch  "},{"Title":"What a hoot","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've long been a fan of the cartoon series with its low-rent artstyle and sly social satire.  When I learned that the movie had finally come to the local theatre I convinced my 10-year old neighbor and her mother to accompany me.It was great.  The juxtaposition of state of the art Computer Graphics with the primitiveness of the character illustrations produced a tension that was part angst ( in the Kierkegaardian sense), part naive glee.My little neighbor agreed that it rocked!I think just about anyone (except maybe hoity-toity sourpusses) will be able to enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Did they do Dexter like that on purpose?","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is enjoyable if1) you skip the pre-movie dexter short. It's like they dug up one of the rejected storylines for the cartoon and decided to show it anyway. In fact, it resembled Ren & Stimpy more than anything, and I'm not exactly a fan of that show either. 2) you wanna know the complete origin of the Powerpuff Girls. So, all in all, it won't disappoint fans, and it might even attract new ones... one more minor thought The Mayor was a bit disappointing in this movie, other than that all the other characters were alright.An overall verdict of B+ "},{"Title":"Episode One The Mojo Menace )","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went and saw this movie the day it came out with my nieces and I really enjoyed it.  Although the movie might have moved a little slow for younger kids it was entertaining.The animation was great, and the monkey madness that ensues is hilarious.  Lots of pop culture references (barrel o' monkeys being one of my favorites) and although the girls' little game of tag seemed a bit long for young kids it was my favorite part of the movie.  The girls are so insanely cute it just makes me smile.  I think that because this movie detailed there origin it wouldn't live up to the TV show's rapid pace, but it's a very fun movie nonetheless.I think that it would have definitely been an excellent movie had they had condensed the first have of the movie into about half the time and had more fun with the rest of it.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet kids","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love PPG (as I sit typing with my PPG watch around my wrist), but this movie was little more than a very big, slightly slow episode. I kept waiting for it to pick up. There were some good moments, and a couple of chuckles, but nothing like the constant one-two of the series. I think the biggest disappointment was the lack of trademark gore, and the seizure and nausea-inducing flashing lights in Mojo's lab. And the Dexter's Lab precursor was awful. "},{"Title":"Girls against the world","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've always love the show everything about it. And the movie was just as good. I saw it yesterday and loved it from beginning to finish. But I thought we all could of done without the disturbing Dexter's Laboratory short before the movie. The whole time it shows close-ups of him scratching his chicken pox! I cringed throughout the whole cartoon. Then, the movie started and it became a thing of the past.Who couldn't love three adorable little girls with big eyes and super hero powers. Professor Utonium wants to be a father. But since he doesn't have a wife or girlfriend, he turns to science. And with his formula to create the perfect little girl sugar, spice, and everything nice. He sets out to invent some daughters. But with the help of his lab assistant, (a monkey named Jojo), he accidentally added a drop of chemical x which gave them super powers. When three little girls appeared, he named them off from their behavior. (The Leader) Blossom is smart, and not afraid to speak or ask questions. (The Sweetest One) Bubbles is sensitive, cheerful, and is all rainbows and ponies. (The Toughest One) Buttercup is more of a tomboy. She love sports and getting down and dirty. But if you plan on taking over the world, she'll kick your ass.The girls try to lead a normal life, but are unable to control the strength of their powers. Like on the first day of school they learn how to play tag. Seems innocent enough, but they accidentally destroy the city. So they are labeled as freaks and monsters. And are avoided and snubbed by the citizens of Townsville.  (  While the Professor is in jail (being held partly responsible) the girls sadly wander around, thinking their father hates them.  ((  They get lost and run into Jojo (the monkey lab assistant) who was affected by the blast of chemical x and now wants to take over the world. He tricks them by acting like a good guy, but is actually using them in his evil plot.This whole movie is about the Powerpuff Girls birth and first adventure. While on the way, trying to correct their mistakes, and learning how cruel life can be. <SIGH> OOPS! GOT TOO CAUGHT UP THERE! Anyway, this is (one) of the best cartoon movies I've seen in a long time. It's funny, cute, and entertaining. (Although, at one point I thought an action scene was going to give be a seizure). Besides that I loved it!!! I know that this will be added to my movie collection when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Lots of Sugar; Not enough Spice; Overall Nice.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Director Craig McCracken almost breaks loose.  The action is kinetic; the visuals mesmerizing; the score heart-pounding and the moral - its OK to raise fists against terror - is potent and topical.  For all its geometry and wordplay, The PPG Movie comes up a plot-line short of Oscar-ville. King Kong, Durante, The 50's, The 60's, The Planet Of The Apes,  vacuum tubes, squares and circles - references abound, but some are easy to miss. The easiest to miss, by its near absence, is McCracken's thematic wit.  In the PPG TV episode Meet The Beat-Alls - a true classic - the Beatles melody Something means, well, something, because of the context in which its played as well as its place in the overall story.  In the Movie, one wishes for an ongoing Fay Wray theme or perhaps a feminist sub-plot with - aw, forget it.  This is supposed to be a kid's movie, right? CM and Co. have given birth to fine film.  Adult PPG fans may have preferred a extra dash of Tabasco, but green peppers are OK, too. "}{"Title":"A matinee-price-only prequel with a lot of grrl power to it.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After putting together the film I was amazed at non-kiddish this film was. Honestly this cute grrl power film might not be suited for anyone under the age of 10. Putting aside the Game Boy-ish sesure inducing flashing effects the film actually put a hard twist to the PPG storyline. After the Dexter's Lab cartoon, which looks alot like Ren and Stempy, PPG movie starts you off with several questions within the first 20 mins. The Batman creates his own evil story line was pretty funny but really doesn't kick in until Mojo gets some power to him. All in all a need little film to take the kids to go see, but only at a matinee price. On a serious side note, if you have problems with strobe lighting and ultra fast animation stay away.    "},{"Title":"The Little Octopus who wasn't there.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even if you're not a kid, but you feel sometimes like one, you'll enjoy this movie, maybe more than kids.The plot is simple, but is good. Action-packed sequences, interesting animation with some well placed cgi effects, incidental music is cool, lots funny of gags and famous lines for other 'monkey' flicks make this super-movie very enjoyable.To be fair, editors can take a few minutes off, but we can survive anyway. I like the movie and I'm not a big PPG fan!A little goof of the movie (not a spoiler) after a busy first day, the girls go to bed, and daddy-o Utonium put a cute purple octopus, property of the adorable Bubbles and she hug him. Next, the Professor is cleaning and picking the toys the girls left on the floor downstairs, and the little 'Octi' is there...again! Maybe is his twin...who knows!  "},{"Title":"Quite good... if adults will spend time with their children...","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This Movie has lots of Violence and Mayhems as well as Harsh Languages. But why bother? Yes, it's true. Especially what if our/your children learned such Languages or Violence? There is a simple solution. Just sacrifice your time and spend time with them reasoning why they should not learn such things. It's very simple and they could not do it at all. They simply just spoil other viewers' mood by giving this GREAT MOVIE a Bad, Bad Review and Horrible but Honest Comments. It's probably because they could not do it, they gave up easily. That is not those kind of people we know. Why? They lack of important keywords to the solution.1. Patients (With whoever is around them/you/us) 2. Chances (They immediately say everything out loud without thinking THRICE) 3. Solutions (Finding Solutions to overcome easy problems and they just immediately gave it a Bad Review. Refer to the top)Bottomline There are those who love Powerpuff Girls and there are those who hate them. If you don't have what it takes to love them, why bother caring and watching? If you got what it takes, then prove it by starting with the 3 Main Keywords. There are more but like what they said... Patients.POWERPUFF GIRLS FOREVER!POWERPUFF! "},{"Title":"Give a new aesthetic a chance!","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I've long been a fan of Craig McCracken's Powerpuffs as seen on Cartoon Network, and while the movie didn't take the girls and their world to an entirely new level (apart from a few very sweet cinematic tricks)I thought I'd come here to give an adult's perspective and to defend the style of the film. When the movie was first released I spent awhile at 'Rotten Tomatoes.com' and was frankly flabbergasted by some of the reviews I read. Nothing so much about the plot of the film mind you, which frankly I didn't have much of an opinion on, but mostly about the look of the film and the style of animation. Many of the comments were straight-up derogatory and undeservedly scathing. Why undeserving? Well, far from being cheap and nasty in animation terms (as was implied - mostly with reference to Disney), the PPuffs style is in actuality remarkably sophisticated and subtle. It's all about interpretation folks. The PPuffs style is deliberately flat and super-minimalist and I for one love it to bits. The fusion of super-blocky and flat characters with an understanding and control of Japanese anime techniques is a real treasure. In my opinion it's simply one of the best-looking shows that has ever been produced. Don't think so? I'd suggest watching a whole lot more of the TV series. You may find that its style grows on you. Not to mention that it's witty, irreverent and real savvy satire. For example, check out the episode 'Something's a Ms.' where Townsville's Mayor does a send-up of the Big Lebowski's monologue from, naturally, 'The Big Lebowski', or 'Meet the Beat-Alls'; an inspired episode which spoofs the Beatles phenomenon and has dialogue which consists almost entirely of their song lyrics. In short it's a whole lot more entertaining than your average kiddie-channel fodder. As for comparisons to Disney, well I'm just bored with all that. At least PPuffs offers something radically different. I just wish more people were able to see beyond the surface simplicity and grasp how truly gorgeous it really is. "},{"Title":"Excellent I wish the movie made more money","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the main reason cartoon network refuses to do a theater film ever again. Great movie the last 30 minutes make me tingle they are so awesome. This is the most high quality thing they have ever done and It bombed at the theater.I wish every one could see this, the cinematography is outstanding and the action is awesome. I am a man and when I tell other men to see it they laugh at me, but the guys I do get to see this agree with me it is amazing.The plot also has deep meaning If you look at it, monkey that was an accident of man creates monkeys in his own image and demands him to obey because of that=message about God? proubley not, but this movie is awesome great dialog, action, look, rent it and you will thank me. One of the greatest action movies of all time. bottom line see it don't be a wimp or be afraid your friends will laugh it's incredible  "},{"Title":"Made for Fans","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was very surprised. The quality is leaps and bounds over the series, and the movie is made to be a fan's dream. The entire movie start to finish seems made with the fan in mind. The animation quality is top notch. From the little things like eye movement to the big things like debris and destruction of a city. It's all done superbly well and it all looks absolutely wonderful.The story is quite nice as well, though nothing too extreme. They managed to squeeze in the origins of just about anything and everything. Yet, it never seems forced... there's never a scene that was obviously put in just to explain something.The sound and music is perfect with the movie. The music fits it very well and the subtle cues really draw the fans in. The VA's do a wonderful job as well, there's really nothing to dislike.It's far from a deep movie, and it's certainly no epic animation. But for fans of the show it's PPG perfection. For folks yet to see the show, it's a very entertaining flick well worth your time. The full length commentary on the dvd by the director and art director is well worth watching by itself. Not only is it great to hear a behind the scenes look, there's many great tips for artists spread around on how they made certain effects and made some effects easier. The commentary is worth the rental alone.- Rirath_com "},{"Title":"Great deal of fun, me being the right audience.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been watching PPG for a couple of seasons now, and I still think it's hilarious. Tough crimefighting mixed with cute cartoons, giving a very funny comical effect. As for the whole audiencepart of the review, I don't really know what to say. I´consider it suitable for all ages, also appealing to all, though I wouldn't disagree if someone said it wasn't suitable for our youngest youngsters (maybe <7). The series deals with episodes like Meet The Beat-Alls with 10 minutes of hilarious jokes refering to the Beatles, not being understood at all by most of our kids, but it still has those colorful thingys allover the screen and cute cartoons and funny voices, that should be interpreted as entertaining by a lot of kids. To call this a way to sell dolls is to be way off. This production gleams of underlying ambition and conscientiousness. The music addresses to 18-30 yo's mostly, being Frank Black from Pixies (maybe 18-40?), the Apples in Stereo, Komeda (go Sweden) and Cornelius as well as many other great not-to-known-though bands.Arrange this review in your minds, and you got my opinion of it, arranging isn't my strong side.Go watch it! (10/10, me loving Simpsons, Futurama, Ren & Stimpy and Southpark) "},{"Title":"THE BEST","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Mike (28), Yes 28 years oldMyself and a friend (29) left work early and saw this movie and it was the best, full of action, laughs and jokes that I had me laughing like a nuttier!Not usually a big cartoon fan but this was beyond belief, I have to wonder if the younger viewers find it so much good as there were none in the cinema "},{"Title":"Awesome, if you don't like this movie then you obviously don't know the show.","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It was nice how the whole movie fell right into the show. Surprised alot of us...Me and my friends are the types that don't care about what type of movie it is as long as it doesn't bore us to death. Alot of people see the Powerpuff Girls as a kids show so it doesn't surprise me if some people don't like it. But it's a really good show that turned out to have a really good movie...better then MIB2 anyway. This flim will have you laughing from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"A film reference injoke","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked the film.  Sure, some of the sequences are a bit overlong but overall things flow pretty dang well. And if they ever do a live action PPG, I'd go with Kevin Spacey at Professor Utonium.  As a divorced man without kids, I can really feel for the Professor's search for a family.  On a lighter note, I just wanted to add a specific film injoke.  Remember the two guys whose van is thrown into a building by the girls' game of Tag?  They're Mark Borchardt and Mike Schank, the Milwaukee film-makers who are the subject of AMERICAN MOVIE. Mike is a customer at my store, though I haven't seen him since seeing PPG to ask if he's seen the film yet. "}{"Title":"small stuff","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The PowerPuff Girls Movie should have gone straight to video. The animation does not work well on the big screen.  There are some attempts to involve adults but this film is just for small children and not that great for them.  GRADE = C  "},{"Title":"Pretty disappointing effort. (","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've always been a fan of the PPG series due to the influence of my kid sister and my girlfriend.This PPG movie however... *sigh*Imagine a half hour episode starting from The city of Townsville... until ... the day was saved by the PowerPuff Girls. stretched to almost 3 times its length.IMHO, some parts were too tedious to be watched. Most unbearable is the tag scene where the girls fly all over town.Towards the last half of the movie, I had to try hard to keep my eyes open and my mind focused.Disappointing. "},{"Title":"first movie I've wanted to walk out of in a long time...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ***minor spoiler alert - read ahead at your own risk...***While I was always a big fan of the TV show, this movie was just a bad idea all the way around.  I will admit that there is one 5 minute stretch about an hour in where various villains are introduced that was humorous, the rest was a rather big yawn.  Even the young kids that were there were bored and restless and walking around the theater.And the Dexter's Lab short that we were forced to sit through before the movie began was so not funny that it probably added to my overall displeasure with the feature film. "},{"Title":"Just horrible","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie had the dumbest of plots, bad annimation, was overly loud, overly violent, and basically one of the more boring movies I've ever seen.  I love kids movies and go see them even when I don't have a kid with me....but this was just awful.Even my 5-year old friend was bored.....geessh, if they can't appeal to a 5-year old, then they are pretty far off their target market.... "},{"Title":"Good - not great - may hit a nerve or two","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, I admit it - I am also an adult who like this for some reason. It's mindless fluff, and the series often has an occasional bit of in-humor that is amusing and shows the writers are my age, or at least have seen some of the same programs, commercials, and lived in LA like I have (The episode with the Dynamo, which is a direct rip-off of the Japanese monster movie genre in general and Johnny Socko and his Giant Robot in particular is wonderful).The problem with the film is that is you have ever felt rejected because you are different - maybe shy, maybe fat, maybe just plain out of place - the movie may open that part of your mind up just a bit. In a sense, the movie is a departure from the series in that it is darker and more violent, and they lost some of the fun that is inherent in the series. "},{"Title":"Good time waster","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If, like me, you are not familiar with the television adventures of Blossom, Buttercup and Bubbles, the test-tube superhero Powerpuff Girls, this movie is a good place to start. We meet the girls in their infancy, just after they were created in a lab by Professor Utonium. Apparently if you mix sugar and spice and everything nice with Chemical X you get small flying girls with the power to shoot lasers from their oversized eyes. The girls have some trouble learning to contain their powers, and when the evil monkey Mojo Jojo tricks them into working for him they must take a stand and save their city. I'm not sure who will go see this movie. At the screening I was at there were lots of six-year-olds and lots of twenty-five-year-olds with suspicious grins on their faces. The animation is quite beautiful, very imaginative, managing to look completely contemporary and yet somehow retro at the same time. There's also lots of great pop culture references sprinkled throughout &#150; look for a nod to the banker from the Monopoly game and some King Kong sight gags. It's a good time waster, although a little stiff at full price with a running time of just 87 minutes.  "},{"Title":"This PowerPuff fan says 'Thumbs Down'","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The 'mandatory' origin of the girls is WAY too long and uneventful. They should have compressed the first 45 minutes into the first 10. As it is, the movie is like one long diluted episode with all the gore and violence tamed down for a wider audience. Wait for the video and rent it, as this fan has no intention of watching it again. "},{"Title":"When Bad Timing Happens To Wonderful Movies","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Powerpuff Girls Movie is a fantastic work of animation and entertainment.  It's a shame, however, that it had the unfortunate luck to be scheduled opposite not one, not two, but THREE movies all garnering for the same audience.Those familiar with the TV show will know the premise, but for those new to PPG, here it is the lonely Professor Untonium is searching for the formula to create the perfect little girls, which turns out to be sugar, spice, and everything nice.  While he conducts his experiments, his lab monkey Jojo accidentally knocks a vial of Chemical X into the mixture.  POOF! Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup are born three perfect little girls with superpowers that include flight, laser eyes, and super strength.  The blast also mutates Jojo's brain, turing him into the villainous super-genius Mojo Jojo.The animation in the movie is in the same style as the show lovingly rendered 2-D animation reminiscent of anime art deco.  This being a movie, however, the production quality is much higher.  The now famous 10-minute tag scene (in which the girls cause massive yet unintentional destruction throughout Townsville), is a marvel of American animation, a dizzying blend of movement and color.Besides the visuals, the script has never been better.  We get to see how the girls go from super-powered kindergartners to super-heroes dedicated to fighting crime.  The girls act and think like real girls, not always sure of what to do or how to react, and possessing the naivete and optimism of youth.  The voice acting is strong as well, with wonderful turns from Catherine Cavidini (Blossom), E. G. Daily (Buttercup), and Tara Strong (my personal favorite, Bubbles).It's a shame that the movie won't do as well as it should.  Here's hoping for rentals!And by the way, how about that punk thrash version of the main theme? "},{"Title":"Not So Fast, Walt Disney!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Since I am a devout fan of the highly witty television series, I may be a bit biased.  However, even to those who have never even heard of the show, this could possibly be one of the greatest animated films of the decade.The plott was unique and contained many unexpected twists, yet it refused to cancel out the more ignorant audience.  Aside from an adorable storyline, the special effects are like none ever seen in any animated film.  The artists and staff have completed a fine job of setting moods, details and art direction.I only wish Warner Bros. didn't butcher this film and ruin its hype all in the name of cash.  They did the same thing to The Iron Giant.  This film deserved more ad time and promotion.  Warner Brothers studios should be ashamed.  I could only hope that the an Uncut DVD is released. "},{"Title":"Will likely become a cult animated flick-Truly for all ages.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm approaching this in an unbiased matter, even though I'm a longtime fan of the TV series.What is it that has made The Powerpuff Girls such a worldwide phenomena? Well, besides the irresistable charm of the trio, it's simply a good show. Full of wonderful pop-culture pokes, great characters and voice acting, a unique, psuedo-50's art style, and wonderfully done action sequences, it's become a beloved series for kids and adults both male and female.So is the movie good?  Yes, but it's missing one of the things mentioned above.I just want to make the point across that the animation in this film is simply gorgeous.  98% of it is CG, and even that blends in well.  The rest is brilliant, boldly-drawn art that is fluid, vivid and immersive.  The creator, Craig McCracken, was actually influenced by the wonderful recent Gorillaz music videos to do a slightly new animation style; as the characters' bodies move, they slightly squash and stretch.  And guess what? This makes it look better than most Disney movies.  Let me just say that the last third of this film is among the greatest-looking works of art I've ever seen.I love the fact that the movie relied on only the show's main cast, who aren't exactly big celebs(Though people may have heard them without knowing them; for example, Buttercup's voice actress also does the voice of Tommy Pickles on Rugrats, and Roger L. Jackson, who does the villainous chimp Mojo Jojo, is the infamous 'phone voice' in Scream.), instead of big-name talent, as most animated features cop out and do.  They all do a wonderful job, simple as that.Now the missing ingredient A lot of the pop culture jabs just aren't there. While I recall a Jimmy Durante and Wizard of Oz reference, the movie seems to rely on plot and plot alone for the most alone.  I kind of missed them. But still, the plot itself is fantastic.  It's emotional in the beginning, and increasingly riveting from then on.  My heart was in my throat by the last fight with Mojo.And guess what?  Know how there's always a stupid moral in animated movies that's always heavy-handed to us on a platter?(Be yourself in Aladdin, You don't need physical strength to be a hero in Hercules, etc.) There's only one small one here(Don't judge others as freaks before you get to know them), but it's hardly shoved in our faces at all; in fact, I only realized it right now.Alas, the box office figures are horrible.  This will be off the Top 10 in a week, while tripe like The Crocodile Hunter, Mr. Deeds, and Like Mike actually do good.  There's no justice in the box office market today, folks.(The same thing happened to my all-time favorite animated film, The Iron Giant, sadly.)I can name two reasons this failed Lack of marketing, and people thinking it's a cheap Pokémon-esque TV-to-movie piece of dung that only kids will like(Though I like Pokémon, but let's not get into that).  Guess what?  YOU DON'T HAVE TO KNOW A SINGLE THING ABOUT THE SHOW TO ENJOY THIS, because this is actually the very first story of The Powerpuff Girls, chronicling their birth, their early experiences, and the chain of events that made them the superheroes that they are.  Be warned, though Those who suffer easily from seizures should beware of the scene where Mojo activates a machine and the entire screen flashes red and green for at least 30 seconds(It gave me a bit of a headache, personally), and the last third may be a little intense for those six and under.(Personally, my five-year-old sister was absolutely fine with it.)Please, people, give this film a chance.  It is neither a cheap cash-in of the show nor a little girls' film; it is a well-written, funny and exciting movie that is the best animated film I've seen in a while, and it deserves to be seen by all. "}{"Title":"sadly lacking","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This ain't no Meet The Beat-Alls.Where are ridiculously funny and parodic characters like Lucky Captain Rabbit King when you need them?Making MoJo JoJo the antagonist-focus of the film seemed like a good idea to me . . .until I saw how humorless and toothless he is in this flick. Where was MoJo's over-the-top hyperbole and his signature ineffective rage?Also, I question how necessary an origin of... type of movie is with a popular brand that's been available to us for more than a couple of years now (and with several volumes of home video releases). They certainly didn't expand upon or improve the story for fans already familiar with the Girls.The various incarnations of evil monkeys was great, though - a brief moment of what this flick could and should have been.P.S. - Warning even the Dexter's Lab short is strangely alien. It seems like they spent a lot of time cleaning up the animation and making it flashy, but for naught; this was the ugliest episode of Dexter I've ever seen. Even the voice talent seemed to be on loan - Dee Dee sounded more like Chrissy from Three's Company, and Dexter sounded as irritatingly unlike himself as Mel Blanc's weak successors in recent Looney Tunes projects. What gives? "},{"Title":"Seizure inducing material","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the pleasures of going to the movies for me in the 90's was seeing the television shows Beavis and Butt-head and South Park turned into hilarious and thought provoking films for almost anyone (I'd say kids under the age of 9 shouldn't see either).  Now in this new millenium we have two movies in just a couple of weeks time span that show what's in store for the rest of us in this decade, the first was Hey Arnold from Nick (later on they also have another Nicktoon Wild Thornberries which I'll wait on to punce, er, review) and this from Cartoon Network.  And while I understand that Powerpuff Girls and Hey Arnold are in a different class of characters than that of Beavise and Cartman, I can see the cloud about to pour torrential rain on the animated world that lies outside the realm of Disney.Powerpuff Girls is a television show that has three hoped up little girls flying around, using their magical powers to uninteltionally destroy and also help out the people of Townsville where there are also a group of monkeys and apes with huge brains sticking out of their heads (led by Mojo Jojo) who are the girls' adversaries.  This basic concept is brought forth in this movie where there aren't much sparks of originality, and while I chuckled a few times I was never really impressed, at all, from beginning to end it seemed like a dumb romp.  Yet, I know you parents with little girls and other kids might want to take them since this movie is for them and does work on several levels for them, so I reccomend it on that basis.  My own personal status was that it kept my attention but it certainly wasn't worth my time.  C- "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Far better than the Dexter's Lab movie, this movie has a two-tiered humor reminiscent of the old Muppet Show.  It was funny and entertaining for the kids, but for grownups and older children, there is additional subtler humor - just like the show.  Definately worth the trip to the movie theatre.  "},{"Title":"A fun ride for adults as well as children.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's funny, trippy and entertaining.  This film will make you a Powerpuff Girl fan, if you're not one already.  Adults should play close attention to plays on words, such as the name of the donut place all the Townsville Police eat at. "},{"Title":"Fun, excitement and laughs for fans and newcomers alike!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Powerpuff Girls movie tells the story (familiar to fans of the show) of how Professor Utonium created Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup.  It then takes the story a step further to show how the Girls made the decision to use their powers to fight crime and help the people of Townsville.The film is almost non-stop action and excitement.  The 2D animation may not be as sharp or state-of-the-art as, say, Shrek, but it is still a visual delight.  Kids will love the simple story (which makes a point without hitting the viewer over the head with it), while adults will enjoy the in-jokes and references that abound in the movie.One final observation  It is obvious that the creators of this little gem love and respect the medium (and the audience as well).  The fact that this was in part a labor of love shows in the finished product. "},{"Title":"A very noisy and colourful introduction to the series - 55%","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is something of a guilty pleasure for me. Of the many cartoons on Cartoon Network, the Powerpuff Girls are arguably one of the better shows on offer (along with Johnny Bravo) and I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm something of a fan. Although it is a superhero show, there is a knowing wink to it all, such as the brilliant Beat Alls episode. This is their first movie and while it looks and feels like the TV show, it also feels disappointingly empty as though this is simply a feature-length episode.For those who don't know, the show is set in the city of Townsville and focuses on the efforts of Professor Utonium (voiced by Tom Kane) to seek a solution to the crime epidemic sweeping the city. During an experiment, he accidentally knocks some powerful Chemical X into the mix and the resulting explosion creates three cute little girls, all with fantastic super powers. Blossom (Cathy Cavadini) is the forthright leader of the three, Bubbles (Tara Strong) is a giggling little bundle of fun and Buttercup (Elizabeth Daily) is a tomboy with a violent temperament. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones effected by Chemical X and soon, super-smart monkey Mojo Jojo (Roger Jackson) is on the loose and forces the girls into using their fledgling powers for good.If you've ever seen the show then you'll know pretty much all you'll need to about The Powerpuff Girls and this introduction to the show won't cover any new ground. If you've never seen the show then this will either draw you in or turn you away. I'd forgotten how incessantly noisy the show is, filled with characters talking at ninety miles an hour (Mojo is particularly guilty of this) and lots of special effects. It is also quite crudely animated, roughly on a par with South Park and the aforementioned Johnny Bravo. But it is entertaining with plenty to keep kids attention fixed on screen and the odd flash of witty referencing for adults. But as I said at the start, this is basically an extended episode - there wasn't anything new for the movie and if I'd paid to see it in a cinema, I would probably have been disappointed. And personally, I don't like the Mojo Jojo character - I'd have preferred to see Him or the Gangrene Gang, who only make a cameo here.Deciding a rating for this film was tricky. It does have its faults and to be honest, I'd be happier watching the TV show. This felt drawn-out and padded with filler (the scene in space seemed completely pointless), even though it is a perfect transition from small screen to silver screen. It's a shame because the show is good fun (most of the time) and most fans will enjoy the film. But quite frankly, a 25-year-old bartender isn't exactly the target audience so it was unlikely I'd be raving about this picture. This is obviously meant for kids glued to the Cartoon Network and as a piece of shameless self-promotion, it works. But I just didn't enjoy the film as much as the TV show. Here's hoping they get it right for the Johnny Bravo movie. "},{"Title":"Mindless mayhem far worse than Pokemon","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film has one purpose alone... to market and distribute three cute toys whose only purpose on this earth is to cause as much violence and destroy as much property as possible while doing the proverbial heroine stuff (like using more violence to beat up villains and destroy more property in the chaos that ensues)... and then return home in time to be in bed. Whatever. Like recent cute little toy films like Pokemon and Digimon, this is nothing more than an insulting ploy to suck up as much money as they can from your little girl's piggie banks. This is nowhere near the great children film of Lilo & Stitch (by several thousand magnitudes), or even near the monstrosity that is Scooby-Doo.1/10 "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm actually a fan of the Powerpuff Girls because my daughters watch the cartoon in the morning on the kitchen TV while I cook breakfast.  It's funny and entertaining.  The movie was neither.  It was dark, mean, and very boring.  I was disappointed in this movie (but I'll never tell my kids). "},{"Title":"Why was this movie set to theaters, its just a TV episode","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Thoughts from after I saw this in the theaters after its original release In all the talk about why the Powerpuff Girls Movie failed, they have mentioned almost every excuse from too many animated films to the fact most theatres were not showing it past dinner time, to over saturation of the market, to the fact TV spin offs usually don't work while the show is still on TV.What I find curious is that with all the talk no one at any point mentioned the fact is that the movie isn't all that wonderful. Don't get me wrong its not bad, its just not all that great.I went to see this when the movie was on the verge of disappearing from theaters going to the only one in literally 25 miles that was showing the movie. It was packed with kids and their parents, mostly kids under 7, which isn't a bad thing especially when you have a three or four year old repeating every line of Buttercup's, and the whole thing takes on a surreal Rocky Horror sort of feel.The movie is essentially the story of how the girls and Mojo Jo Jo were created. In the early going things weren't bad. It was like a good TV episode on the big screen. However once the second act hits- where the girls are shunned after a game of tag goes horribly wrong - the whole thing grinds to a halt. Yes, it has it moments but it tends to just go on and on. Then the movie shifts gears again once the third act hits and Mojo is revealed to be the villain and all of the other monkeys attempt to take over the world. Everything is rapid fire and I know I missed several of the references and jokes that litter the screen. (I didn't catch the words spelled out in the girls color trails until they were fading from the screen.) Where act two was too slow act three is too fast and I couldn't help the feeling that this was taking the term throw away gag to a new level, so much was happening that it was all lost.Its not bad mind you its just that its an extended TV episode with no real reason to be on the big screen. Hell I bet you there isn't a sharp eyed viewer who won't be able to pick out every place a commercial will appear when Cartoon runs it next spring or summer.Yes I laughed. No, I don't hate it. But in a year where animated cartoons are coming into their own, with Ice Age, Lilo, Metropolis, Escaflowne, Spirit, Jimmy Neutron and Monsters Inc, in less than 12 months (plus Cowboy Bebop , Spirited Away and Treasure Planet before years end) I really can't see the point of putting out a movie thats just the TV show only bigger. (Is it any wonder Hey Arnold also tanked?) Frankly I'm glad is bombing at the box office since I can not see any reason that this movie exists other than to cash in on the Powerpuff Girls bandwagon. This was a movie that was released for the sake of greed (and to have Baboon Butt Bombs) and no other reason. This was not a story that needed to be told on the big screen since they do nothing with it. Frankly other than a louder (mommy my ears hurt) soundtrack and funky hip movie like freeze frames and shots there is nothing that says to me there was any thought put into how make it a movie, it was simply was and is more of the same.Even the 5.75 bargain matinée was too much to ask.I look forward to seeing the DVD. I want to hear the commentary and go back and see what I missed- I want to know the in jokes which I sense are there. But beyond that...Who knows. "},{"Title":"GRAAAAAH! What hapened?","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Oh dear. Hanna Berbera ruined The Powerpuff Girls with making a hour and 1/2 movie out of a decent 30 minite series.GOOD Personally, I like the Portugese (Brasil) voice acting in the PPG better than I do the English version (I HATE TARA STRONG'S VOICE, AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH!!!).BAD Plot? What plot? Movie here tried to explain the backstory of Docinho (Buttercup, personal fav), Lindinha (Bubbles, HAAAATE HER!!!) Florzinha (Blossom, the decent one) and how they came to be, but the plot trails off WAY too much and loses itself so much. When it comes back to the plot, you start to wonder Do I care? Does anybody else care?OVERALL PPG Movie is one dissapointment on what was once a great TV series. Skip this at all costs!!!BTW, I hope Hanna Berbera does NOT, I mean NOT make a full length movie out of Dexter or Robot Johnes, or I'll get some Rio trash and dump it all over them.  "}{"Title":"Powercut girls","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love the Powerpuff girls. They are cute, feisty and love to beat up the bad guys big time. The visual and storying telling style makes it work brilliantly.In making the movie they seem to have chosen to abandon this. The superficials are there, but it really seems different and basically boring.Perhaps they were trying to add more depth, but mostly they had extended sequences without any plot. Good for young children and people using mind altering substances (or a combination of both).It does try and develop a lot more back story and chart the evolution of the PP Girls. But violence is at the heart of the PowerPuffDom, while in the TV series, there is always something else, more interesting and vital than merely beating up the bad guys. "},{"Title":"they should have kept it on the small screen","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'll admit it. I am an adult and I LIKE the Powerpuff Girls. It's a cute show and if my kids want to see it, I'll usually stick around and watch it, too. However, I was very worried about going to see this movie, as MOST TV cartoons translate terribly to the big screen. After seeing this movie, I found that my original thoughts were pretty much on target. The main problem is this--a 15 to 30 minute cartoon is fine, but stretching it and making it something it ISN'T is a very bad idea. If some Hollywood idiot ever thought about doing an Itchy and Scratchy movie, it would be the same--the momentum just CAN'T be maintained. My advice? Watch the Cartoon Network or buy one of their tapes made up of TV episodes.PS--even my kids didn't like this movie! "},{"Title":"Bomb","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If youve had your kids watch the cartoon then you know what i mean by bomb. badly drawn animation on par with a 2 y/o mentality sum up the power puff girls .. Lilo and Stitch was much more entertaining. i dont know whats with the cartoon network ..cartoon cartoon animation is some of the worst ive seen ever.// "}]