[{"Title":"A Huge Waste of Talented People","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"64 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `Full Frontal' is maybe my greatest deception this year. Directed by Steven Soderbergh and having such a cast, I would not believe that the film could be such a crap. There are lots of characters, but none of them is well developed. Therefore, the viewer sees many famous actors and actresses on the screen and is not able to understand who they are, what are their motives, where they are. The plot is very confused, and some actors and actresses perform more than one role. The image and photography are horrible, using a kind of fake Dogma '95 style. I do not know how such talented people could be part of such a mess friendship or big money? Anyway, a huge waste of talented people and of my time and money, in a film that never works. My vote is three.Title (Brazil) `Full Frontal'  "},{"Title":"Explores New Ground","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Director Steven Soderbergh calls Full Frontal the unofficial sequel to Sex Lies and Videotape, his groundbreaking 1989 film. Most everyone else has called it a mess, or useless waste of time. One prominent American critic even suggested this might be the worst film ever by a major director. I can't say I agree with the harsh criticism. While I'm not exactly sure what the movie is about, and vast passages of it simply do not work, I do think it is a film with great passion and energy. Soderbergh has left behind the slickness of Ocean's 11 and Erin Brockovich and made an experimental film that bristles with inventiveness. Not everything works, but there are several nice performances, particularly by David Hyde Pierce and Catherine Keener and I enjoyed watching an A-list director stray from the tried and true and explore rockier ground. "},{"Title":"My honest opinions, they don't have to be yours.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found Full Frontal to be a rejuvenating film. I am so use to seeing films that are so structured and plot is thrown at you, with this film I didn't know what was going to happen next.  I went in to the viewing of this without knowing what to expect, I can say I didn't have high expectations about it.  I didn't let the knowledge of Steven Soderbergh as a director influence how I began watching it. I went in with an open mind and I think you really need to in order to get the ideas presented.  This film took a risk by using well known actors, brilliant actors, making the public believe that this would be a film like all of the others.  For me, it was great to see the versatility. I was glad that there was some true acting going on, there was an enormous amount of truth coming from each artist on the screen. To see truth and honesty and open hearts on screen allowed me to really embrace this film.  Some people may say they disliked it because they didn't have any sympathy for any of the characters, well I think that it doesn't really matter if you do or not. This film was a day in the life of people who are all in some way intertwined and are all brought together for a brief moment.  I feel that it is trying to portray the truth of each person and if that was the idea, Steven accomplished something great.  I have only rented it but I intend to go out and buy it.  It is a good resource for actors searching for what truth honestly looks like on screen. Full Frontal is a good exposure of the soul really bringing each characters truth out in to the open. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was surprised by how much I actually enjoyed FULL FRONTAL. I'm not a big Steven Soderbergh fan and only heard bad things about this film so when I rented it, I was expecting more of Soderbergh's pointless films, like KAFKA, and instead was totally engrossed with the movie, the characters and mostly the hypnotic style and direction. Aside from the ending (the party scenes) and the unconvincing storyline with David Hyde Pierce, I liked everything else. I was mesmerized from beginning to end.The great thing is how quiet this movie is. Movies are so noisy these days, mostly in order to numb people's mind to hide the fact they don't have anything more than visuals, watching FULL FRONTAL was like a cinematic vacation. Beautifully shot, clever and at times engrossing (the Catherine keener storyline was my favorite). It's sad to see few people got  this film. "},{"Title":"Experiment gone awry","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an exercise from Steven Soderberg and that's all it is. You sit through an hour and a half of conversations that normally entitle you know at the beginning and end of every sentence to try and make the film more real. It juxtaposes two films..one containing Francesca(Julia Roberts) and Calvin(Blair Underwood)(this filmed in 35 mm)as Catherine and Nicholas talking about a black actor's status in white hollywood.This leads to Calvin being opposite Brad Pitt(playing himself)in a film directed by David Fincher. This film,come to find out is in turn a doc directed by a man who's face is covered by a block(it's Soderberg). The real film (which is lensed in digital)contains Calvin and Francesca as well as other characters and their lives in Los Angeles. The film's ending totally popped my already deflating balloon and showed that my time and patience was wasted. The dialogue meanders trying to show real people talking about real things. I thought it was a hollywood insiders film cared only by those who are hollywood insiders. I thought the characters never had direction and were simply annoying. There were moments it looked like the film might go somewhere,but unfortunately it gets bogged down with that phony film keeps coming into the middle of the real movie. I just sat there trying not to collapse in my desire to turn the dvd off. Oh well,I'm done with this review,but if you watch this wasteland of wasted time beware..I warned you. BOMB/***** "},{"Title":"That don't impress me much","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Too dreary to work as a satire, too wrapped up in its own cleverness to engage; this is an insubstantial vanity piece that might have been entertaining to make but isn't much fun to watch. I'd have thought that if Soderbergh wanted to show off, he could have come up with something better than this collection of over-scripted (and not particularly original) gimmicks.It might have worked had we spent more time in the company of the interesting peripheral characters (the theatrical Hitler, Gus the producer) than listening to the self-absorbed droning of the others. Film students will probably love it. "},{"Title":"Nod and Wink a full movie doth not make.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What as waste of energy.  Sure you could see where they wanted to go, if it hadn't been made a 1000 times by independants and students.  Was Soderburgh trying to re-create something from his Sex, Lies... days? This movie can be summed up in that it was a student film made by Hollywood trying to be self-referential.   If you were in on the jokes and the cameo/guest appearances then you were in on the movie, otherwise, for most - you're out. Nodding and winking at your clever, in-jokes at Hollywood does not make a movie.What was Terence Stamp doing  there? "},{"Title":"I can't believe no one liked this film","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot of bad reviews for this movie, but personally, I liked it. I guess the movie didn't have a definitive plot, but it was slightly quirky, which is a nice change of pace from the more serious films I usually watch. When I left the movie theater, everyone in there seemed pretty satisfied with the film  But, everyone's entitled to their own opinion.  "},{"Title":"Grow fame and...","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In Spanish there's a saying that translates Grow fame and go to sleep. I think this happened with S. Soderbergh, where he took advantage of his surprising win at the Oscars Best Director competition and the success of his movie Erin Brockovich along with his pal Julia Roberts and her high peak in the moment he made this movie. Without those 2 mega successes he wouldn't convince many studios to make this movie, and none of us would ever seen it. The box office barely went over the movie budget.A mix of troubled characters related all to the movie business create a confused and complicated web of feelings, relationships, weird behaviors and rendevouz that are let to almost pure improvisation by the director, and in retrospective it sounds very interesting but we haven't seen many movies with such a proposal maybe not because nobody has thought about it but because it's very hard to make it successful and achieve a fine piece of work. In this case I don't think that the weight of Oscars and fresh success help that much in accomplishing that nice piece of work. A very good and daring idea where all the actors were abandon to their own choices in make up, dressing and craft supplies. Niece piece of work... for the actors and crew who make it, in their own private screening or party, not for us who felt it was a waste of time and my $1 that cost renting it. There is some arrogant smell in the air that I felt heavily since I saw for the first time Mr. Soderbergh old fashion sort of feminine style glasses frames and it was strongly confirmed by watching this movie.I don't remember in recent years a movie where I start watching the running time as early as I started with this movie when it ran for 15 min I was already impatient, and for a good 1 hour or so I felt uncomfortable for not knowing anything of what was happening and not connecting but a couple of dots in the whole plot. Maybe that was the precise goal of Soderbergh, don't know. I felt bored watching a huge bunch of nonsense which might have make sense but at the end it didn't. Brad Pitt was quite right at the end I don't know who did it. We strongly hope there's better to come from Soderbergh. "},{"Title":"The movie within a movie within a movie just did not work","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't track the characters and after 20 minutes I didn't want to track them. I just wanted it to end--what was Soderbergh thinking? At first I thought it was supposed to be amateurish since it was a movie within a movie, but, when it went on and on with horrible lighting and terrible hand-held camera work, it was enough to make one want to run out screaming. "}{"Title":"You'll need a release alright!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Question 1 *What* was this movie all about? Question 2 What or who prompted its selection as IMDb movie of the day?? (Which in turn has prompted this review.) This has got to be one of the most pretentious and pseudo-high brow movies I've ever seen. Soderbergh has made a movie that so labors on being arty, that you end up witnessing a massive exercise in an aimless and fruitless(one follows the other, I guess)story(?) telling.When I began watching this movie, I was all excited about it - what with such a massive star cast and Soderbergh's reputation. At the end of the movie, I felt cheated of my time and effort that this movie demanded.You're better off watching a re-run of Traffic. "},{"Title":"Must be from LA to get the jokes, but go see the film anyway","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I originally thought people that didn't get this movie were just plain dumb. However, consider the number of LA/Hollywood insider jokes there is some room for understanding.  The quirkiness (Wilson played by Terrence Stamp walking through the lobby) adds to the humor - having seen Steven's other films does also.  All-in-all a great commentary on life in the film business LA. "},{"Title":"Confusing But Satisfying","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal is probably one of the most difficult movies to watch, at least the first half.  The movie within a movie definitely confused (though the hint in the credits strongly suggested as much).  What really disappointed was the quality of the movie within the movie, while the production value was good, the script and the plot didn't seem anywhere near what a movie would be.  On the other hand, the production value of the rest of the movie didn't detract unlike what some other critics have complained.  With real tv now the big rage, what the audience expects isn't all that clear.By the end of the movie, events move forward more quickly, the separate strands tie together and the end (though not original) does help to make the movie wrap up in a nice package.  (It's Brad Pitt's last commentary after the credits that really does a number - making one realize that Soderbergh actually did a nice job at focusing on what was really important to him).While a difficult to movie to wade through at first (a definitely not for everybody), the movie for me was eventually understandable, at times enjoyable, and worth the trip and expense.  I just wish a little more effort had been made at helping the audience get through it. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have seen","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Even though it received 5 stars from many critics, this is the worst movie I have ever seen, including a number of porn movies. I have no objection to sex and can tolerate foul language but a movie should have some redeeming qualities and this movie has none. Basically no plot, no suspense, no romance, no fun, no good jokes, no good sex--just a sorry attempt by some excellent movie makers to be cute with no payoff! I rate this movie even worse than Burt Reynolds worst failure with Dom Deluise (when he and his cast appeared to be having a great time making an unfunny movie) because Soderbergh and crew have the skill to do so much better. I still don't understand why so many critics thought this was such a great movie. Must be some kind of Hollywood inside joke that they are not sharing with the rest of us! "},{"Title":"Big Names equal Big Crap","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie were a lot of big stars come together and fail utterly. What was Soderbergh thinking? It seems like he tried to make an artful a movie as possible combining a lot of 'hip' techniques. There are these parallel enfolding stories about the actors / writers etc. and their roles in the film which are separated only by the hair color of Julia Roberts and the Camera. Which brings me to the worst aspect to the movie. Maybe Mr. Soderbergh didn't realize this, but 99% of the cinema audience don't want to see a movie which is almost always filmed with the dogma-esque handicam style. They also don't like very confusing stories which are tiresome and not worthy of attention. Not even the short appearances of Brad Pitt seemed to do something in favor of the film since the joy for the women in the audience was abruptly ended when the camera style changed (yet once again). I really can't make out anything good about the movie. Interestingly there are some (really not many) funny scenes. One including the Hitler-actor arguing with his writer/director whilst the NS extras are doing Break-dance moves in the background. I couldn't say if the acting was good or bad, the movie was simply to annoying to care about that.Therefore I vote with the majority for a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually write film reviews, but this is film which I had to write about because it is not a typical Hollywood film.  The premise of the film is a look into the lives of people in the movie biz over a two day period. This is a complicated film, because this film is trying to make a point regarding reality and genuineness (as Soderbergh explains in the commentary), without taking the viewer through a plotline.  Plus, Soderbergh was very experimental with his use of digital cameras.  It is for these reasons that this film will never gain widespread popularity.I found this film challenging and enjoyable, because of its many different parts and how they interconnected with each other.  It was not an easy film for me to watch because I was constantly thinking about what Soderbergh was *really* trying to say with each scene -- this movie is deeper than simply depicting movie stars with egos and a mediocre movie within a movie (the characters in the film even acknowledge the absurdity of Rendezvous). The acting isn't a strength, but I don't believe it is a weakness either.  I really enjoyed this film -- even though many would disagree with my high rating, I am giving this 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Very pretentious and supremely boring","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just watched this with a friend on NTSC VHS (interestingly enough, despite star potential and director, it has taken this movie very long to find a distributor in Germany until now).I have seldom seen a movie so in love with itself. Pretentious, boring, lacking in story, meaning or any other aim a film might have. Not that I was expecting that much more from anyone in this movie. Julia Roberts has done better work than this, but it is clearly not expected of her here. Whether she is actually playing herself or a caricature of herself isn't really the point, she is the star in the movie AND in the movie (yes, tedious over-complicated interwoven movie-in-movie plot). And Soderbergh, despite some respectable directing in Erin Brockovich and - maybe - Traffic, is up to his old different story-line means different colour on the screen tricks, which became boring some time ago.  The quasi-amateur camera-work with (we are told in reviews) digital hand-held camera, is Soderbergh's handiwork as in almost all his films. In the end, it's neither beneficial to the story as in Blair Witch or charmingly home-made as in Clerks, but simply tedious to watch.I don't think I cared about any of the characters in the beginning, middle and by the end I was looking at my watch a lot. It figures that the only people to give this positive reviews in Germany such as complex, non-Hollywood story would be those would-be intellectual journalists who either haven't actually seen the movie or won't admit it's impossible to understand. And why would anyone bother? "},{"Title":"It's like watching 5 episodes of Home Movies","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *Includes Spoilers but trust me, you won't care*You know how the cartoon show Home Movies is two minutes of funny and poignent moments wrapped in twenty minutes of utter garbage?  And not even sorted garbage.  Random, unorganized, beery garbage.  The kind of garbage that stinks up your whole kitchen and forces you to empty the can before it's even 3/4 filled.  That is exactly what you get with Full Frontal. It's like seeing something golden and shiny in the middle of a vomit stain. After forcing myself to watch all 101 painfilled, unorganized, stupid-soaked minutes of this wake-up-next-to-the-fat-chick-oh my-god-I-spent-three-dollars-on-this-crap-tacular movie, I had only one question.  Why do I care one tiny little bit about these characters?  Well, let's see.  Gus killed himself.  Do I care at all? NO!  Some guy plays a neurotic, self-depricating Hitler in some play. Do I care? This had promise but after five or six scenes where NOTHING happened, NO! Well look at that, she decided not to leave her husband after all. Do I care? I COULDN'T CARE LESS IF YOU PAID ME!I am pleased at the extras that were put on the DVD because they gave me the inspiration for why this movie was so absolutely retching. The little section about The Rules that the director drew up shows that this movie was only a chance for Steven Soderbergh to thumb his nose at the Hollywood system and say Neener neener neener...I can make a movie without a hair and makeup department and without catering and without limosines and without one line takes from actors that just don't understand their characters.  Well good work, buddy.  You sure showed Hollywood.  For your next trick, maybe you could do the saw a girl in half trick, but instead of it being an illusion, you could actually saw her in half!  Wouldn't that be entertainment at it's most real?  Wouldn't it?  Everyone would throw down praises to your act saying that you removed all the fakery of the sawing the girl in half trick and brought it back to its roots.  It would be the most amazing experimental magic act in history. People would flood the theaters because it would be edgy and in your face and slightly incomprehensible.  And everyone would forget about the fact that you just killed someone.All in all, this movie will scratch at your brain and make your eyes want to take up residence in your rear end so they can watch something pleasant. Never ever ever ever ever ever ever watch this movie.  Ever.  "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people have beefs with Full Frontal, but I liked it.  It's taken some hard hits from professional film critics, so I wanted to chime in with a positive review.The main gripe about its lack of continuity is, to me, unfounded.  The movie in no way purports to be linear storytelling.  I see it as something of a cinematic experiment using a vignette format involving several storylines which at times intersect.  In a culture whose favorite forms of entertainment are a guy on steroids cocking his eyebrow and talking about smackdowns, and action movies with roman numerals after the title, this film obviously contains too many arrows for some people's quivers to hold.  So be it.  I respect Mr. Soderbergh and his cast for taking some risks.Each storyline in the film stands on its own as an interesting tale.  The movie isn't so much a straight story as it is a look at our perceptions of reality and an insightful look at human behavior.  I don't want to assign it any particular meaning, however, because I think it can be interpreted on several levels (not the least of which is how the movies warp our perceptions of reality).All of the acting was superb and the dialogue very naturalistic.This is one of the most innovative movies you'll ever see.  8 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"If you see one movie this summer...DO NOT make it Full Frontal","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having heard the hype and seen the cast that was slated to be in this...movie, I was actually very excited to go see Full Frontal. The most entertaining part of the day was when I saw a trailer for Chicago the musical, and when I saw Signs later on in the night.While I was very entertained by the acting (the nazi play was just sheer genius) I just felt that this movie wasn't taking me anywhere, and my time is very valuable to me. The performances given in this film were not deserved by Steven Soderberg, and it's a shame that they went to such waste on such a poorly crafted film. It was almost like hearing Steven say look at me, Im remaking Sex, Lies, and Videotape. All in all, this could have been a very good movie but I felt excluded from the movie, and when I feel excluded I leave. And in my 18 years of existence, I have never walked out on a movie (yes not even What Lies Beneath) but I made a point to walk out on Full Frontal...it was just that bad. "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal is really wonderful. Great performances by all, but truly brilliant work by David Hyde Pierce, Mary McCormack, Catherine Keener, and Nicky Katt. I heard that VARIETY panned it. They are nuts. Saw it at a preview in Austin at The Paramount tonight. It is a beautiful film. It is hysterically funny and also quite moving.  "},{"Title":"seems like the movie within a movie DID work","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Going into this movie I didn't know what to expect because of the less than ecstatic reviews from papers and imdb, but i was delighted with the movie. I feel that Soderbergh did a great job following each character throughout the movie. The shifting from normal cinema camera work to the fuzzier hand-held showed the difference of 'movie live' and real life. This way of shooting is also used to trick you or leave you wondering, what part WAS real?. David Hyde Pierce and Nicky Katt were hillarious and i would deffinately recomend this movie to anyone who enjoys independent type cinema.   "},{"Title":"What a disappointment. Enough said.","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well what can I say? I have always been a massive fan of Julia Roberts and the entirety of her work, but this really shocked and dismayed me. It's plot is poor it is unbelievably uninteresting and bored me to tears. beside 'Open Water' it is the worst camera work i have witnessed (bar home videos) I am very eager to collect the majority of Julia's work and so I decided to go for it and have a peek at this seemingly entrancing film, however it was to my distaste. It lacked any real plot and seemed to be a group of people talking to a dodgy camera, hence i have promptly returned the film and hope never to view its likes again. If you're curious to see what I'm talking about, don't look. It's a nasty shock. Strike one Julia.  "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember my thoughts when I picked up the movie.  I've heard this is pretty good.  I don't remember where or when, so I rented it.  After watching this dreck, I now think, Somebody lied to me.  The lies just get better and better (or worse and worse) depending on your perspectiveThe lies continue.  Look at the top of the page under Genre.  The first word is COMEDY.  Huh?  Comedy for whom?  There's nothing funny here.Go to Box Office and Business.  Budget $2,000,000.  I didn't think that Julia Roberts did anything for less than 20 million.  I think that somebody is guilty of fraud.  How do you quantify a big fat favor from her?  This is fraud on an Enron scale.Finally, this is from the Plot Summary Julia Roberts, Blair Underwood, David Duchovny, Brad Pitt (cameoing as himself), David Hyde Pierce, Catherine Keener, and Terence Stamp are reason enough to see the film, which is billed as a 'movie about movies for people who love movies.'A movie about movies for people who love movies?  What?  This should be billed as 'self-indulgent crap'!And notice who was left out.  Nicky Katt (although very annoying) was the best actor in this mess.Alas, there is some truth.  It was filmed in 18 days.  I think just about anyone would agree, that sounds about right. "},{"Title":"Proof of Concept Falls Short","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Rented this film after reading an interview in DV Magazine with Soderbergh. Evidently the film was a concept; to play the visual qualities of film against those of digital video, & to try to integrate the 'Reality Show' idea into a feature film. The film has a few good moments but comes off confusing & visually ugly. I have worked in both film & video. Video is still inferior to film in terms of visual quality but it doesn't have to be ugly. There is lots of footage in the film that is just plain ugly thru run & gun style shooting carelesness. A little more craft in shooting the video would have kept it technically in bounds & still allowed the video quality to express itself. While I'm at it a major mistake was shooting the video with only one cameraman (Soderbergh himself). This is a major advantage of video; cheap multi-camera shooting is one of the great benefits. Double teaming this excellent cast with two good cameramen on these small self-focusing cameras could have produced some awesome cutting material. A tragic mistake. There are also lightweight gymbal camera mounts for these cameras which make beautiful floating camera moves. They could really have helped the hand held camera. Even though the film doesn't quite work I have to hand it to the director for trying. It would be easy to back off the cutting edge thru fear. Hitchcock did proof of concept stuff with 'Rope', nobody ever did that again but the film wasn't a failure either. It's all about guts. I think the reason for the big name cast was that they wanted to try to break some new ground too. Maybe just making lots of money gets boring (although personally I can't see why). The best acting was by Catherine Keener. She got to develop a full & interesting character. Close behind & neck & neck were David Hyde Pierce & Blair Underwood. I also really liked Nicky Katt as Hitler. I agree with others that his role & the producer's should have been expanded; especially his. 101 minutes run time leaves 19 minutes to play around with (120 standard US film). That's lots of time. The article also said that there were some hidden & fully candid cameras used. I wish I could tell where or even if any of that was used. I say reload & try again. Hell even more radical. Shoot the whole thing with hidden cameras. What always kills avant guarde experiments is lack of good actors & there was no lack here.  "},{"Title":"Great idea, bad handling","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wish FULL FRONTAL was just better made, that's all.  As somebody who in works in Digital Video, it just would of been great to see members of the Hollywood A-list (Soderburgh, Julia Roberts, Brad Pitt, etc etc) be in a great, crowd pleasing film that was made with the video equipment I use.   Instead, we had a confusing film that caters to an art-house crowd, or at least, tries to.   Too many times, the camera is operated in a way to say Hey look, don't pay attention to the story, pay attention to this sun-glare, or bad zoom.)  "},{"Title":"Much-maligned indie exercise turns out to be a cinema masterclass","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's much-maligned digital satire of Hollywood took an unfair savaging at the hands of American critics, who seem to resent the fact that the man has become the single most interesting and consistently exciting film director currently working in America. Designed as a deliberately low-budget, quasi-improvised indie production to counter-balance the big studio production of Ocean's Eleven, Full Frontal was shot according to a Dogme 95-like manifesto (the actors had to drive themselves to work and do their own wardrobe and make-up, all the locations are pre-existing), and is a cross between the confessional nature of Sex, Lies & Videotape, the multi-story structure of Magnolia and the film-within-a-film framework of François Truffaut's Day for Night. It's the tale of a day in the life of six Los Angelenos connected in some way to the film industry budding screenwriters Enrico Colantoni and David Hyde Pierce; Pierce's sister-in-law Mary McCormack, a struggling masseuse, and wife Catherine Keener, a human resources VP on the verge of a nervous breakdown; black actor Blair Underwood and film star Julia Roberts. Soderbergh follows the day's events as if he were shooting a documentary, in grainy (post-produced) DV, intercutting it with 35mm photography of a film in production starring Underwood and Roberts, whose plot is supposed to echo the main characters' situations. The Chinese-box structure only really becomes comprehensible about a third of the way in, and what looks at first like a self-indulgent exercise in the mechanics of low-budget filmmaking quickly becomes a cinema masterclass as Soderbergh effortlessly navigates the veritable maze of referential layers between film and life to the point you can no longer distinguish where film ends and reality begins, throwing in a number of celebrity cameos (Brad Pitt, Miramax's Harvey Weinstein, Terence Stamp reprising a scene from The Limey) that blur the borders even further. You have to be open for it, but if you are you'll be richly rewarded.  "},{"Title":"basically a hateful, extreme version of feminism sold as comedy","Date":"12 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is one thing to cherry pick your sources, but Full Frontal takes satire to a hateful extreme. The way pro-life America is portrayed is so blatantly false that I think she either spends time digging up the dumbest 1% of people she disagrees with or her interviews are with payed actors. To make matters worse, she just isn't that funny. Late night needs a female comedian. Samantha Bee has the female down, but she replaced the comedian part with political bullshitter. Some of the funniest, smartest, kindest people on earth are women. Samantha Bee is crude, dumb, mean, and simply not funny. The cherry on top of this whole time slot of badness is that she is Canadian. Did her sense of humor get frozen by their cold? OK, that last one is too far. Nobody can help where they are from, even Canadians. "},{"Title":"Shamefully underrated!","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was surprised to see the rather low IMDb score for this movie which is actually one of my top ten American independent movies of all time. It has a terrific cast, a great story and a great sub-story (or rather a sub-text to the main story), the different camera work serving as the differentiating element between the two. As a 'film within a film' type of movie, it superbly conveys the reality-fiction duality, centering on two main stories/plots the 'real' story (shot dogma-style) and the 'fictional' story (shot in a standard way) thus allowing the viewer to distinguish between the two. It is a film about love and the search for love, the search for love in the right or wrong places, in ways which can be right or wrong. It engages with two developing love stories &#x96; one fictional, the other real. The 'fictional' story involves Roberts and Underwood's characters (him - an up-and-coming Hollywood movie star, her &#x96;a journalist doing a cover story on him). The 'real' story running in parallel is about the potentiality of human relationships, with two protagonists who have not yet met in person and, through a prolonged online communication, have arranged to finally meet in person. As the movie progresses, the sympathetic viewer's anticipation and excitement for their upcoming meeting at the Holiday Inn in Tucson builds up giving the impression that this 'love story in the making' is essentially the leitmotif of the movie, engaging the viewer with these two people's chance for romance and love and the opportunity to 'get it right' this time around. The ultimate reason why this movie resonates with me so deeply is the final scene of the chance encounter between the 'real' love story protagonists before they board the plane to Tucson (the irony being that both of them are based in L.A. and share a number of mutual acquaintances) with the two of them ending up sitting together on the plane. It is at this time that the viewer experiences a heart-warming 'ooooh' moment about how real love can work in mysterious ways, which is almost immediately followed by a shocking twist in the story as the camera zooms out, what is revealed is &#x96; a movie set! Shattering all our illusions that the 'real' love story of the film will indeed develop, the ending is truly a pessimistic one, however, managing to depict in a masterful way the thin dividing line between art and life/ reality and film. Even though the film yet again confirms the age-old rule that accomplished love stories get a better chance in the fictional (movie) world, it also presents us with a challenge for a real-world chance worth taking. "},{"Title":"Full Frontal","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a Soderbergh guy. sex, lies & videotape is one of my all-time favorite films. I watch that at least once a year, typically on a sleepy Sunday afternoon. The Limey, with Terence Stamp (his presence is in Full Frontal, a nod to the film, obviously), I think is close to greatness. Side Effects and Contagion good films about topics quite relevant and thought- provoking today (pharmaceuticals and the threat of a damaging disease that could spread quite quickly). Erin Brockovich, about a past incident that sheds light on corporate corruption, pollution causing cancer to the public, and the law's use to see those wrong-doers pay for their sins. The Danny Ocean films, cotton candy for your cast-heavy sweet tooth. The Girlfriend Experience, where he focuses his camera on a young woman who provides a service for clients that allows them to have a temporary companion to provide them comfort, sex, and company.Films all serve a purpose, have a vision, want to tell a story, or just entertain you. Full Frontal, on the other hand, feels like an attempt at the French New Wave crossed with Altman's The Player, and it never succeeds due to its insufferable characters, purposely perplexing (one scene, which just had me throwing my hands up has Roberts, the actress, handing a cup of water to the character she portrays in a roll with a wig) plot, and hopeless setup that drives it (Gus is having a party in his honor; Duchovny, who has one scene, where he is getting a massage and boner because of it; he is later found with a plastic bag over his head and a naked torso, obviously due to erotic asphyxiation).Besides a wasted Duchovny, there's Julia Roberts as an actress portraying a news journalist (both appear to be characters in this film, but the film doesn't know what it wants with them) interviewing a black actor struggling to break through (Blair Underwood) in Hollywood. A card with a secret-admirer type of writing devoted to him he believes is from the journalist. Later, it is revealed that this is just a film, when Soderbergh not only breaks the fourth wall but obliterates it with a rocket launcher. The bits with Brad Pitt, superstar, I found nauseating. Underwood also portrays a real actor struggling. So both characters are essentially the same. Try figuring out if he is one in the same or whatever, by film's end I flat didn't give a crap. Also Catherine Keener (boy, is she a keeper) is a human resources manager who makes fools out of employees desperate to keep their job. She is currently sleeping with Underwood, and has left a note for her husband (played by a rather pitiable David Hyde Pierce) telling him she's done with their marriage. Pierce works for a magazine involved in articles he hates, only staying there for the money, later fired for answering a stupid question about whether he would drink a beer in a glass or from a bottle by the boss. He doesn't know what is next but he loves teaching so there's that. Yeah, that and his dog becomes non-responsive due to eating too many dope brownies (sigh). Keener is becoming a basket case while her massage therapist sister (Mary McKormick, the best thing about this miserable film or experiment, or whatever you want to call it) wants a real relationship, planning to meet someone in Tuscon, Arizona (Enrico Colantoni, also portraying Underwood's agent; again, doing this, Soderbergh further confuses the audience) she met online. Mary winds up masturbating Duchovny, later admonishing him for suggesting she do so while massaging him (he offers five hundred bucks for 30 seconds of jerking him off). Meanwhile Enrico has written a small-scale play about Hitler starring a douchebag actor (Nicky Katt), a self-loving, self- involved, opinionated jerk who hijacks work by others to soothe his own ego. With narration by some of the characters on occasion, you get to learn a little more about them (which, by the end, I wanted to erase them from my memory). I liked how the Enrico and Mary story ends (begins?) at the end up until Soderbergh pulls the camera away to reveal them on a Hollywood set which just made me groan.The whole it's only a movie dynamic of the film just did absolutely nothing for me. It seems desperate to be arty and cinéma vérité, a throwback to the way directors once incorporated outside the box techniques and devices at telling stories using the camera and crew in a style audiences weren't accustomed to. In this film's case it feels so inorganic and superficial, I felt the director only encourages us to fantasize about punching him in his pretentious face. I hate to visualize that because I think he's an absolute talent, prolific and always tackling projects that cover a wide variety of humanistic themes and topics that are meaningful. And he can make entertainments that are exceptionally well made and labyrinthine (like the Ocean movies) although they are basic popcorn. And he does make films that are unlike him (Magic Mike, Bubble, and Haywire), as well as historical films which focus on real-life characters (Behind the Candelabra & Che); Soderbergh is a talent I want to continue to remain busy due to his willingness to be eclectic, making interesting films covering anything and everything. But Full Frontal is one of those films I think you could skip and save for any number of better films like Neon Maniacs or Future Kill. "}{"Title":"Full Frontal Ensemble.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Full Frontal (2002) Dir Steven Soderbergh / Cast Julia Roberts, Blaire Underwood, Mary McCormack, Catherine Keener, David Duchovny Both Steven Soderbergh and Julia Roberts made two overrated stupid movies called Erin Brockovich and Ocean's 11. Now comes a worthwhile effort for Roberts but not for Soderbergh. Title regards issues skirted around as oppose to facing. Blaire Underwood plays a black actor interviewed by Julia Roberts but he believes she wrote him a love letter. A husband is unaware of his wife's affair or her willingness to end their marriage. Or that plastic bag used by a massage client after talking women into giving him a hand job. Intriguing concept with detailed subplots but editing is sloppy and Soderbergh hardly matches his shots jumping from one scene to another. Examples of his better works include Traffic and Out of Sight where his talent is on target. Underwood and Roberts have great chemistry. Mary McCormack gets more than she bargained for from a massage client. Catherine Keener is a depressed housewife looking for love in all the wrong places. David Duchovny also makes an appearance outside his usual X-Files familiarity. Great ensemble cast involved in a variety of subplots make this an interesting take on connecting. Often disjointed yet detailed portrayal of the broken lives we often lead. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"This Movie is Freaking Genius","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" People who didn't suss this movie as an important bit of film making are escapists who simply don't know film as an artistic medium capable of delivering truth. This is an uncomfortably pointy satire laced with dark comedic vasodialators about the Jerry Springer act that we all live 24/7. The layering of the relationships, the fun house magnifying glass turned on Hollywood culture and the often questionable artistic justification of performance were done with a sublime insider's eye for irony and the casual vapidity of the little circuses of circumstance that we find ourselves thrown into on a daily basis. Any savvy movie goer will lap up the seriously fine acting detail, camera work and subtle interplay of partially met expectations motivating the plot structure in every sequence, even the green/red 3-D ones which was pure freaking genius along with the extreme soft focus porn scene. Full Frontal is Hollywood on an X-ray dissecting slab in 21st century cultural bedlam. Hitler in an off off-Broadway micro theater, populated by friends of the cast, on a couch rambling on to his shrink about controlling his eccentricities, was the kind of hilarity that sticks with you like an interstate truck stop breakfast. I got nothing but respect for Sonderbergh who has the chops to do a French New Wave Cannes quality film with one hand tied behind his back. If I taught a film class, this one would be in the lineup just behind the Orson Welles ones. "},{"Title":"Clever but dull","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderbergh calls Full Frontal the unofficial karmic sequel to his debut film, sex, lies, and videotape. Now, I'm not exactly sure what that means. Karmic is basically the adjective form of karma, which is the Buddhist principle of retributive justice that determines a person's life and whether it is positive or negative. There are no parallels between the story lines of the two films and I can't draw any connections between the themes or motifs of either film. So I think what it comes down to is just ignore what Soderbergh has said and look at Full Frontal as a completely separate film.So now that we've cleared (or rather disregarded) any confusion I can continue this review without any necessary mention of sex, lies, and videotape. Full Frontal is about a group of people in the film industry whose lives intertwine in different ways, all primarily through a producer named Gus. The opening of the film displays character cards for all the main players, accompanied by voice over from that character. In this film we have a down on his luck writer named Carl Bright. His wife is a lawyer named Lee Bright and he is having issues with her that carry throughout the film. There is Lee's sister, Linda who is a massage therapist. There is a stage director named Arty who has been chatting with Linda online as the two of them use aliases that are much cooler than who they actually are. Then there are two actors, Calvin and Francesca, who for a majority of the film are in a film-within-a-film scenario that, honestly, finds itself much more profound than it actually is. These characters are all coming together for a party thrown by Gus, and along the way there are some surprises and discoveries made about themselves.This film is mostly just odd. It's offbeat, it's quirky, and it also tries very hard to be clever. Granted there are scenes that are clever, but there are others that sort of miss the mark. Soderbergh does a great job with the story structure and the way he brings the characters together. He has a clear cut goal for this film, but the process of getting there is pretty rocky. What Full Frontal suffers from the most is just plain dullness. This film really does get boring at times. But it isn't unbearable by any means. It is one of those films that just when you start to realize how slow it is getting something happens to bring it back and you are drawn in once again. I almost see this as cheating because a good film will keep you drawn in consistently from start to finish, not just throw in certain moments to grab your attention and then skimp on the rest. Full Frontal isn't as guilty of this as other films because Soderbergh makes an effort to keep the film entertaining in its entirety, but the effort goes to waste at some moments that just really drag the film down.But in spite of everything you have to admire this film for just having a good time. Soderbergh directs it in a sort of mockumentary fashion. When I see this movie I think of The Office and the way it is shot as if the camera crew is with these characters, filming their day to day business, and the characters know it. There is a significant amount of voice over work done in this film that is all interviews with the characters. Soderbergh allegedly filmed the actors in this film about their character and then used some of the results for the film. There is a lot of obvious ad libbing in the film that adds a sense of quirky authenticity to the look and feel of this film, making it unique, if only slightly.Full Frontal tries to be a lot more than it is. It is definitely a smart film with a nice touch of cleverness, but in the end it doesn't seem to amount to much. I think Soderbergh was trying to create a very in depth character study disguised as a quirky comedy film, but I think more of the quirky comedy came out than the profundities of the character study. But I can still say that I enjoyed this film for what it is. Would I ever sit through it again? No way. But it is something different, making for an amusing one time watch. "},{"Title":"Character confessional along the lines of Welcome to L.A....once was enough","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fragmentary mini-guide through Los Angeles-area egos and insecurities, a dissonant dissection of characters at the proverbial crossroads in their lives, unsure how to proceed and dragging others into their inharmonious webs. Under the unwritten rule that low-budget art-films with big-name players acting for scale must be edgy and provoking, director Steven Soderbergh and screenwriter Coleman Hough have crafted a multi-character portrait of tangled lives laid bare (hence the title); they actually appear to perceive these unearthed 'truths' to be honest and outspoken, but the phoniness comes through. As a television actor hoping to make the jump to features, Blair Underwood has a chance to broaden his heretofore limited abilities and show us something special, but--aside from a funny rap in the backseat of a limousine--he's stuck playing boy-girl guessing games with journalist Julia Roberts (in a Jane Fonda shag wig). There's a funny episode with a stage actor (portraying Hitler in a production entitled The Sound and the Fuhrer) rebelling against his direction, but the marriage and employment woes of the others smack of Alan Rudolph's Welcome to L.A. (with perhaps a bit more needling sarcasm substituting for satire). What Soderbergh does with the look of the film (utilizing mostly hand-held cameras) is far more interesting than the writing, however no new ground is broken either way because we have all been down this lonesome road before. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Totally Worthless Movie","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is totally worthless. A rating of One is 'way too high but IMDb does not allow a lower rating. This movie makes the best argument yet for allowing the scale to go lower. It is incoherent, hopping so much from one scene to another, from one brief beginnings of a boring, meaningless story line to another, from one group of people to another, that it is maddening. All to ultimately no purpose. Do not believe those who, in their written reviews, raise it to the level of total crap. It isn't that good. Awful doesn't quite describe it. The career of Steven Soderbergh is very checkered. This film represents his nadir (so far). The movie public can only hope that he doesn't try to go lower in stealing your money. But, beware, he might, so STAY AWAY from any future film directed by or in any way connected to Steven Soderbergh, because the people connected with that future film cannot appreciate your viewing pleasure if they hire someone who put on Full Frontal. Only by staying away from Steven Soderbergh can we win back our respectability as the movie viewing public. Speak out with your dollars and prevent Steven Soderbergh from putting out any more trash like Full Frontal. "},{"Title":"Self-conscious Hollywood navel-gazing seems bored with itself...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie isn't a total write-off, but it's really navel-gazing at the lint that accumulates therein. It utilises the conceit of a movie within a movie...in other words, there is 'reality' in the movie, and a 'pretend' part which is the movie within a movie. The lines between these two get blurred often.If you are familiar with TV shows like The office (whether the UK or the US version), you will know the kind of performances to expect and the manner in which they are delivered...dry, awkward at times, etc. The cinematography is also the kind that The Office would use...hand held, fly on the wall kind of stuff. The editing seems odd at times, too...you seem to lose a second of time every now and again, and I'm not exactly sure what that is meant to be about.Script wise, the characters seem to prattle on about nothing much at all a lot of the time, but occasionally you feel that they are saying something important. That sense of importance is lessened by the fact that the characters (if not the actors themselves) are just plain bored by what they are saying. You, the viewer, can feel their pain too. The topics of importance raised in dialogue could be something like race and its relation to popular culture and representation.The aspects of this movie which make it rise above being a total loss are the odd scenes...there are amusing scenes like that of a theatre actor who plays Adolf Hitler in a very odd way. If you are tuned into that aspect of this movie, you will enjoy such moments.Train-spotters will enjoy the cameo appearance in this movie of well known film and TV actors-people like David Duchovny (The X Files), Brad Pitt (Se7en) and Julia Roberts (Ocean's Eleven). Duchovny's character also provides some of the absurd humour of this movie.I suppose my main issue with this film is this is it a satire? Of Hollywood? If yes, I'm not sure that such a satire can rise above what it attempts to satirise. In other words, I'm not sure that it is any better than what it attempts to satirise.Another hypothesis that occurred to me was that the director, Steven Soderbergh, was satirising lesser talents than himself. If yes, the fact that this film doesn't really seem to have found an audience-critical or commercial, perhaps- suggests, again, that Soderbergh is on the same level as those he was seeking to satirise. Even though I don't feel that this movie is much of anything, I have to applaud Soderbergh's magnificent debut movie, I think, Sex, lies and videotape. That's a movie where he got things right...performances and script and tone etc. In this movie, it all just feels so self-indulgent.If you are into pointed critiques of cinema or Hollywood, I recommend movies like Barton Fink which was very successful, I think, in satirising a certain Hollywood 'type'. To a lesser extent, I recommend Peter Greenway's The baby of Macon. That is not a terrific movie, but I think it has perhaps the greatest scene in cinema history...where the viewer is confronted by the very nature of representation (in the infamous rape scene from that movie).This movie had its premiere, I think, on commercial Australian TV at a very late timeslot. That was appropriate. That's where I saw this film-in fact I PVRd it. If you can see this movie cheap, that would be the way to see it, I think.33/100 "},{"Title":"The backstage of a movie about the backstage of a movie","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is excellent. Not the same commercial line as Ocean's 12 and 13. Ocean's 11 is perfect, pure Hollywood at its best. The other 2 anyone can see it was made because the crew liked so much working with each other... and a little more $ for all. Maybe, hoping, for funding good movies like this one. The way it leads us into the characters lives, visions, desires and disappointments... Its just beautiful. It shows how the movies about movie making became false. Showing true characters, true people behind them... Not just those absurd situations, that 'Rendevousz' shows. And David Duchovny gave a special touch to the unknown-but-loved-by-all Gus. Its intelligent, sensitive, smart and, above all, True. Again, I think its excellent. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Experimental does not always mean good","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It saddens me to say so but Full Frontal is painfully boring, pointless, disjointed, and underdeveloped. I am a big fan of indie experimental original movies but this one gives the term bad meaning. As hard as they tried, the talented performers ((David Hyde Pierce, Catherine Keener, Mary McCormack, Julia Roberts, Blair Underwood) could not make their lifeless characters interesting enough for me to care. I love Catherine Keener in every movie I've seen her but she's played the same role in better films. She is much more interesting in Neil LaBute's Your Friends & Neighbors (1998) which reminds in some ways Full Frontal. Both, Neil LaBute's and Soderbergh's films picture selfish and often unpleasant and despicable people who are not happy with themselves and can't make happy those close to them. Another Keener's film that came to my mind, is Living in Oblivion (1995), a 91 minutes long low-budget independent movie about trials and tribulations of making a low budget independent movie. Tom DiCillo's smart, funny, playful, and highly enjoyable Living in Oblivion has surreal, strangely poetic and amusing quality to it. Unlike, Soderbergh's empty exercise in self-indulgence, wonderful cast of Living in Oblivion has something interesting to play and the characters created by Steve Buscemi, Catherine Keener, Chad Palomino, Dermot Mulroney and Peter Dinklage (in a very funny cameo) are alive and three-dimensional. I am a fan of Soderbergh's work since I saw his fascinating debut, the Palme d'Or winner Sex, Lies, and Videotape. I read that Full Frontal is in a way a sequel to Soderbergh's first feature. If that's true, it only proves that sequels almost never measure up to originals. "},{"Title":"GREAT ENTERTAINING & FUNNY EXPERIMENT","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of course I will not call it a masterpiece but this little acid house movie is definitely worth watching. First of all I just don't understand why so many viewers rushed to post negative reviews giving Soderbergh a minus 10 marks. I think the only reason is that most of these people honestly did not expect anything like it. For those who knew Soderbergh for Traffic, Erin Brokovich, Out Of Sight it's an obvious disappointment because this movie is very unusual. These reviews sound like somebody just watched a silent movie with Charlie Chaplin and is not happy because characters don't talk. I agree this movie is not perfect but it's interesting and funny. Plus performances by Nicky Katt and Cathrine Keener are simply hysterical. Please do yourself a favor entertain your brain and free your mind. Watch this movie till the end and then go to IN CHARACTER INTERVIEWS on DVD. Maybe this will help you to really GET Full Frontal! (8/10) "},{"Title":"Not nearly as amusing as Schizopolis","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  **Spoilers Present**I know, comparisons are odious.  But this movie did remind me of Schizopolis, and that was before I knew that Full Frontal was also directed by Soderberg.  So, yeah, it does have some the same twistedness, but whereas Schizopolis goes completely over the edge, and thus obtains its cool, this film kind of teeters on the edge, and thus disappoints.  Should we take it seriously?  Who knows?  Unsatisfying ending, as well.  Sorry folks, this one's kind of a dud. "}{"Title":"Unmitigated Trash","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Read Roger Ebert's review and save yourself the time you would waste watching this incomparably boring and vapid exercise in Hollywood navel-gazing. On a scale of 1 to 10, this trash rates a -999999999999. "},{"Title":"I actually cannot believe Julia Roberts has agreed to do this bad movie!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I actually cannot believe Julia Roberts has agreed to do this bad movie! There was nothing going on and from the beginning till the end all you did was to wait it become better, but no. The way characters were introduced was good and fresh and made you really excited about the rest of the movie, but the introduction turned out to be the highlight of the whole movie.Oh, and if you choose to watch this movie, because in the cover it is printed Brad Pitt is acting in the movie (as he would have even a bigger role), don`t fall into that! Brad is probably 2 minutes on the screen and says maybe 4 lines and that`s about it. This really descripes how low can be gone in order to get someone watching a movie and it also tells a lot about this specific movie there`s nothing to be seen in the movie itself. Boring and stupid. "},{"Title":"What a waste of money.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mine firstly in paying to go and see this and every cent of the $2million it cost to make this. Save your money this won't be braking any box office records and won't be in the the cinema long either, I think there were a max of ten watching it when I went. Each to there own I'm sure somebody will enjoy it, but it was not my cup of tea, just the way it was shot was hard work to watch let alone follow the story. "},{"Title":"Superb Film-Making on Multiple Levels","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With Spoilers.Having just seen this film, I am astonished at how well Soderbergh has turned the normal character study into a piece of cinematic art.  In terms of structure, the basic premise is of a film within a film, yet Soderbergh has subverted this to add not only a film within the film within the film but a final pull shot which reveals the only possible ending - that even the reality we have been watching is itself merely a film.  It may *appear* trite in some ways and many less bold directors would have avoided such an ending but it was the best, if not only, choice that could have been made.The bulk of the narrative (although as a character study, the plot is secondary to the emotions and actions of the actors are the primary focus) takes place in two forms.  The film within is shot on standard 35mm stock while what we think (until the end) is reality is shot on intentionally grainy DV.  It is with this reality that Soderbergh has taken the premise of Dogme95 manifesto film-making and both used it in its most effective style (as a homage, perhaps, to von Trier's Dancer in the Dark) as a means of splitting realities but moreso, he takes it to the extreme - Ultra-Dogme - where the bad aspects of the style are highlighted.  In this way, he has not only homaged von Trier, but to an extent dismissed the whole Dogme concept by highlighting its weaknesses.Within the film, the characters are developed through a day in their lives way, focusing on relationships and despite the short time frame, allowing them to grow and at least learn from their experiences, both through logical progression and the use of chance.  But while doing so, the subtle, clever humour that pervades the entire dialogue is extremely well done.  But don't expect the jokes to be thrown at you - you as the viewer are expected to work.  This isn't popcorn entertainment and if you don't think for a second about some of the lines, the chances are they will fly right over your head.Interlaced into this is perhaps the most enjoyable aspect of the film for me.  Two shots featuring Terrence Stamp reprising his role as Wilson in The Limey, Soderbergh's most under-rated and probably his best film.  But more than that.  The shots appear *IN DIFFERENT REALITIES*, one in the film within a film and one in the Dogme reality.This is a level of subtlety which is rarely attempted in modern cinema. It is also a level of subtlety that I sadly feel is beyond the bulk of the modern cinema audience.However, if you enjoy films that demand you to work to get full enjoyment, which have subtle humour and no pandering, this is a movie that will join your canon of favourite films.  It is not for everyone but if you do understand what is going on and pick up on the nuances, I assure you it will be a film you love.Regards, Eduin "},{"Title":"Almost a dogma.","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Scandinavia the dogma concept has been discussed since it started. However, a true dogma film is not automatically a high artistic quality film just because one is follow the dogma rules. I think FULL FRONTAL shows that a combination works as good too. Personal I wonder who wrote and/or played the song in the end during the credit list! Anyone who knows? "},{"Title":"Only two things to say about this movie","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, yes, the photography of this movie is horrible and gives headachesSecond, it is still brilliant - content wise - not only does it give you a physical headache, but it is so intriguing and intricate, that it makes you want to risk another headache by going to see it again to understand it allAnd lastly, there is no way, no matter how you turn it, that this movie follows Sex, Lies and Videotape.... No way!! It just doesn't, and for those of you who think it does, feel free to tell me why, but be sure to have some good, convincing arguments!Ok, these were three things... oops.  So long. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Daring","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film is witty enough for the dvd machine, and may have been worth full price in the theaters when it came out. If you're a fan of any of these stars (e.g., David Duchovny, David Hyde-Pierce, Catherine Keener) and want to see what kind of unconventional stuff they are capable of, watch the movie.Catherine Keener's performance was especially stunning in this film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awful!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have seen in the last decade!  Horrible camera work and atrocious editing, if you want to call it that.  The film makes no sense and is a mish mash of crap.  I am surprised that Julia Roberts lowered herself to be in this garbage. "},{"Title":"Odd title, but good harmless fun","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't see why so many people are so negative about this movie.  I thought it was a lot of fun, with well-acted and eccentric characters.  Sure, Soderbergh has done better films (The Limey, Traffic, Brockovich), and he's made ones that are more fun (Ocean's 11) but it's still pretty good, and I enjoy seeing Soderbergh experiment with different variations on his unique style.  6/10. "},{"Title":"Not even done yet, and already regretting...","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I've got like 5 minutes left in this...I don't even know what do call it. It's like a Chris Guest movie without humor, plot, or vision.  You know those movies where you realize once you are watching it, that you have just lost time from your life that you will never get back, well that's how this movie made me feel.  And might I add, that was the only emotion this movie made me feel.  This is a Hollywood movie (which tries to be Indie,) about Hollywood, for Hollywood.  I want to just stand at Blockbuster in front of this movie and warn people.  All in all, this movie just tries too hard to be something, what? I don't even think Steven Soderberg knows. "}{"Title":"bland...very bland","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is an extremely boring movie.  nothing happens, i don't identify with any of the characters, the only semi-likable character is lee's sister anne. the switching between the movie-within-a-movie and the actual movie was kind of interesting and if done right is a great idea.  it just wasn't done right.  don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea, but greatly appreciated","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is not by any means a great movie, but I can at least appreciate what is being attempted in this film.  This is one of the only movies where actors actually act.  With an encouragement to improv, the actors are actually getting into the characters, and not just one line at a time like most features today. I love how this movie makes you really understand and think about the fact that you are watching a movie. Like Igmar Bergman's Persona and Goddard's Week End you really analyze the situation you are in.  We get so used to seeing the beautifully lit, actors in makeup being shot on a set.  Every movie today is made up of scene after scene of these perfect looking shots to convey the narrative.  It is so refreshing to see Soderberg attempt a movie and tell a story with this Dogme technique.  It takes some adjusting but an open-minded audience can become involved with this story.  It is as if this movie is telling the story of 'real life' without beautiful Hollywood cinematography.  And then in the end when we have finally adujusted to this 'real life' being presented to us, we are pulled back out again is the DV Cam pulls out to reveal the set being shot on.  These kind of movies aren't typically my cup of tea, but I can definitly appreciate what was accomplished.  "},{"Title":"Crap-ola","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I picked this one up at the video store because I generally enjoy artistic films and new ways of looking at things.  I managed to sit through the entire thing, but just barely.  Some parts were funny, sure, you film fifty different actors sitting around making small talk and a few funny things are going to happen.  But over all this movie was just boring.  I walked away feeling like I'd just seen an imitation modern art painting.  It doesn't make any sense, and there's nothing real or original about the fact that it doesn't make any sense.  It was a fairly cool idea that just didn't pan out. I give it a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and acting talent","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie this weekend and was extremely disapointed. It's supposed to be a comedy and lists a cast that should make any movie a  pleasure to watch. It was neither a comedy or a good movie. I felt that I wasted my time and money on this film and the actors wasted their talent in shooting this bomb.   "},{"Title":"...Frontal what?  Lobotomy?","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie sucked big time.  At first I thought, it could be interesting based on the premise and the buzz.  I was intrigued by the use of DV by another big name director.  Even the low-lighting, jump cuts and movie-within-a-movie peaked my curiosity.  I hadn't seen such ambitious attempts at shaking up the audience's expectations in quite some time, it kind of reminded me of an early Godard film.  But after the novelty wore off, I was stuck with a rambling incoherant plot that pretended to expose the reality of the lives of eight characters who work in LA in and around the film business.  The fact that all the actors are recognizable stars ruined the illusion that we were privy to real life.  The self-conscious filmmaking style just scratched the surface in an attempt to go behind superficality of the story.  The fact that the movie incorporated 35mm footage with the DV footage didn't mean anything to me.  And just added to the confusion of the weak plot.  I didn't care about anyone in the film because they were just devices and not real people.  Still to this date, nobody has successfully used DV to its advantages.  Just another case of a Hollywood Big Shot, slumming it for the cheap thrill of saying they did it.  "},{"Title":"Rebirth of the Cool Full Frontal Is Monstrously Underrated!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a pretty big fan of Sodderbergh. His resume is tighter than a harpsichord salesman on May Day King of the Hill, The Underneath, Kafka, Gray's Anatomy, Schizopolis, The Limey, Out of Sight, and Sex, Lies and Videotape are all excellent films, making Sodderbergh one of the more consistently entertaining (and thought-provoking) directors in Hollywood today. In regards to his last few films, Ocean's Eleven was fluffy but a pip and Solaris was brutally boring. (Dare not challenge the Tarkovsky!) The initial reactions to Full Frontal were pretty negative. If I'm not mistaken, it bombed quite thoroughly at the box office. I was wary of this film being stinkier than a dead mongoose, so I hesitated until just recently to rent it.Sweet daddy was I shocked! Full Frontal is an incredibly smooth, smart, funny, freaky, and at times mind-blowing film experience. Multiple viewings are not necessary but are helpful for digesting the myriad of subtle nuances. If this baby was in smell-o-vision she'd be more sweetly aromatic than a coriander chutney. There's a delightful ethos saturating this movie that I found totally delectable. It definitely hits the ground running, giving the viewer a ton of character hints right from the get-go. If your willing to strap yourself in and focus, you're bound to feel something from watching this movie.Not since The Limey has Sodderbergh's unique editing style been as effective. The film within a film effect allows Sodderbergh to comment on different layers of film reality, from the sanguine sophistication of a polished Hollywood romantic melodrama in the film Rendez Vous (the film within the film starring Underwood and Roberts) to the less polished, digital camera-filmed film reality of the rest of the film (huh?). While Rendez Vous uncovers the Hollywood ego in a slick adult fashion, the rest of the film has more of a documentary-style feel. In that medium, actors provide voice-over insights into their motives and emotions, as well as their thoughts on other characters and happenings. This leads the viewer to believe that this film reality is the truth, that it's a more accurate description of the Hollywood ego. But with the last shot, Sodderbergh tell us that at any level, it's all still coming from his head.There are several brilliant, dynamic performances in this film. David Hyde Pierce is absolutely wonderful as Carl Bright, a down-on-his-luck Hollywood writer who favors drinking beer out of the glass (a choice that causes him some setbacks). The fact that Carl wrote the screenplay for Rendez Vous gives the viewer a heaping helping of characterization. Hyde Pierce delivers a very funny and vulnerable performance.Nicky Katt is also incredibly funny as the actor portraying Hitler in a small stage production in which Hitler isn't exactly Hitler. Instead, he's portrayed as a modern self-obsessed bastard (I'm taking a swim in lake me). Just the shear originality of this concept alone would make Full Frontal worth seeing. Nicky Katt is one of the more underrated actors going today, it's a shame nobody knows how to use him except Sodderbergh (he's also brutally hilarious and creepy as Stacy the hitman in The Limey).Katherine Keener is also outstanding. The touch of absurd with the blow-up globe in her parking spot and her subsequent use if it (as a Human Resources VP) is tremendously amusing. She is convincingly cruel, sexy, insane, and sweet all at once...positively brilliant.There are so many amazing things about this movie. It's only a matter of time before it gets the recognition it deserves. Sodderbergh's list of rules he sent to the actors, how he told them to pack their own lunch and do their own wardrobe and makeup, and how he encouraged improvisation are all key factors in the ultra cool final product. How about the Terrence Stamp character from The Limey appearing in both film mediums? Talk about a mind blower! And what does it say on Brad Pitt's shirt for the magazine cover Brad Pitt Wants to Boil Your Bunny? It's hard to tell, but I think it says Fincher never hurt mommy. Holy crow!Full Frontal deserves full propers! "},{"Title":"Dull Frontal","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I try and see every movie in the context of what it is (ie.  XXX will be shallow violence, Kubrick will be Kubrick, etc...) and I usually enjoy most movies by taking that viewpoint.  I came into this movie, intrigued by the concept of DV cam and an indie feel.  I came away from this movie enamered with the concept of never seeing another experimental Soderbergh film  This is a self pretentious, boring, mostly humorless, example of what a movie shouldn't be.  And I like Soderbergh. "},{"Title":"eddie54 said it in his title","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  quazi intellectual waste of time. boring^3. the only good thing about this 'thing' (1/10) is that I actually rent DVDs from netflix - so this waste of time that does not deserve to be called movie, cost me just about under $2. i can live with that. i can sit thru enthing but after 35 minutes (is this new record? has anyone actualy seen the whole thing?) i had to give up and FF it... "},{"Title":"A Waste of Energy","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I sat through the first 20 minutes of this and when it kept changing to home movie style footage and back again I got a yawning fit and decided I would rather be asleep than watch this drivel. What a shame that the line up of good actors should waste their time on this. Shame on you Soderbergh, you can do heaps better than this poor script. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman creates, Steven Soderbergh masturbates","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I downloaded this curiosity off of Kazaa and it was so boring, I decided to read every user comment WHILE I WAS WATCHING IT!!!  In fact, it's still playing as I write this. It's just another comment about the declined of the Hollywood movie.  Soderbergh was the darling of independent cinema.  He has since been seduced, then corrupted by the Hollywood system til he himself is the corruptor.  Audiences will enjoy anything I chose to put up on the screen, he thinks.  It happened to David Lynch.  It happened to Woody Allen.  Massive egos and shallow personalities of movie entertainers are NOTHING NEW TO THE MOVIE AUDIENCE!!! Robert Altman can pull this off and he did in The Player.  Soderbergh is just pulling his own chain..............and ours.  "}{"Title":"Underrated film, from one of the greatest directors of our time... 4/5","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal. Now here is a film that will leave most of its audience scratching their heads, scrambling to figure out what to make of it. It's an interesting premise though, a virtual 'day in the life' type of film about a handful of people in southern California. Shot on digital video, and costing a fraction of what it took to make Steven Soderbergh's previous hit, Oceans 11.Some hoped it would be a sequel of sorts to Soderbergh's late 80's indie smash Sex, Lies and Videotape, but it really isn't, that film was more of a voyeuristic and creepy look into the life of a guy who videotaped people talking about their sex lives.It truly is a testament to Soderbergh's undeniable genius of filmmaking, to be able to secure big name leads in a film, which looks as if a local cable access station crew made it in a weekend. Julia Roberts makes her third appearance in a Soderbergh film, perhaps once again trying to capture the magic and spirit of her Oscar winning role for Erin Brockovich, but luckily for America, there isn't enough good material here to garner her another Academy nod.Other actors, such as David Duchovny, Catherine Keener, David Hyde Pierce, and Blair Underwood all give memorable performances, especially Pierce who steps out from the shadow of is role as Niles on Frasier, to play an insecure middle aged husband who is dealing with losing his marriage and job. Underwood plays an actor who, throughout the entire film is being interviewed by a reporter played by Roberts.In one hilarious sequence, the two arrive on a film set and Roberts' character continues her interview with Underwood in between his takes as a seventies looking kind of cop who's partner is Brad Pitt in a movie that is being directed by David Fincher. Without giving away anymore, I will say that the film is sort of a movie within a movie within a movie, which I thought worked very well, and is something many film students will undoubtedly try to imitate, but will rarely be able to pull off, even with the help of digital video.Homage's to other films are everywhere in this film, as are the cameos, in addition to the aforementioned Brad Pitt and David Fincher cameos, Harvey Weinstein, Jerry Weintraub, and Terence Stamp make interesting appearances in Full Frontal as well, including a couple of scenes involving Stamp in the background of other characters, reprising his role as Wilson, from Soderbergh's 1999 film The Limey.I thought the film was a monumental achievement for technical innovation (shot almost entirely on DV), and for the introspective dialogue, which came from all the severely flawed characters. While I was in the theater, there couldn't have been more than 12 people, all of which had to be couples in their mid 30's. I am not sure if that was the demographic Steven Soderbergh was going after or not, but by the end of the movie there were only about halt that number still in their seats.Personally, no film I pay to see is bad enough to walk out on, and I thoroughly enjoyed Full Frontal, I just think it was misunderstood by the majority of moviegoers who thought it was going to be another Julia Roberts romantic comedy, and who had the attention span of an 8 year-old boy hopped up on an insane sugar rush. I hate people like that.4/5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Ill tell you what happened to Soderbergh","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just have to say, poor Wayne Malin who did not really understand this flick. You need to think about the billing. A movie about movies for people who love movies.Please people if you see this movie, see past the graininess, as wayne said it is true hat soderbergh is fond of it. And i get a feeling that he is trying to return filmmaking to a point it was before. Here we have a major released movie, with an all star cast, shot in 18 DAYS for a measly 2million. If you already havent, read the first issue of the trivia. It tells you alot.I hope that this movie inspires more major directors and actor to pursue making this kinds of movies, i know ill watch them.Comments?  "},{"Title":"DOGME95 it isn't . . .","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  . . . not that it's intended to be, maybe.  I was excited by the premise of the director's instructions to his actors.  Great, I thought, a low-budget, minimalist film shot on DV by a great director.  I was more than disappointed by the pretentious construction and silly seriousness of the project.  I thought I could care less about Julia Roberts, and now I do. "},{"Title":"The definition of Hollywood life","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wonder how many people left to complain to the projectionist that the wrong movie was playing, since completely fake credits are given for a movie called 'Rendezvous'? It's a typically cheesy romance movie (think Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan) in which an interviewer (Julia Roberts) falls for (or does she?) a movie star (Blair Underwood). He finds a love note and she claims she didn't write it, blah, blah...you already know how this is going to turn out. But in between these crystal-clear takes from 'Rendezvous,' real life scenes (filmed on a 'Blair Witch' quality video camera) show Julia and Blair as actors interconnecting with other people (ala 'Magnolia'). They each comment on their Hollywood lives in a pseudo-documentary style (the movie is kind of like a cross between 'Timecode' and 'The Player'). It is surreal to see 'Rendezvous' suddenly stop filming as Julia takes off her wig and starts acting like...well, Julia Roberts! After I first saw 'Full Frontal,' I honestly couldn't say whether I liked it or not (I felt it could be anywhere from a 5 to an 8). I had figured out the ending about halfway through but I'm still glad Soderbergh ended the movie this way because it takes the whole movie to a completely different level. If you want to see a movie that blends the (already) thin line between reality and film, see 'Full Frontal.' "},{"Title":"A funny and witty movie that's a must see!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal is a great movie with a cast of characters who are real and believable.  Julia Roberts shows off her true talent in this movie, so if you're a Julia Roberts fan, go see her at her best!  I enjoyed the visual style of the movie which switched between digital video and film, as the movie changes from one story line to the other.  Some notable performances were David Hyde Pierce, Nicky Katt, Catherine Keener, and Mary Mc Cormack. It was an ensemble cast though, and everyone was great!  I would give this movie Oscar nominations for directing and screenplay.  "},{"Title":"Soderbergh bites the hand that feeds him","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh has had quite an evolution as a filmmaker. He burst onto the scene with a quiet little picture called sex, lies, and videotape, made a lot of well-regarded but little-seen pictures (Kafka, Gray's Anatomy, Schizopolis), and finally made the jump to the big leagues with 1998's Out Of Sight, a film most remembered for what now seems like the quintessential Soderbergh trick (Clooney's and Lopez's sex scene with a simple voiceover). He took a small break with The Limey, then became a top-tier director with 2000's one-two punch of Erin Brockovich and Traffic. Then he made possibly one of the most enjoyable big-name movies of 2001, Ocean's Eleven. And now, Full Frontal. Not many directors can, or would want to, knock off a quick, small-budget movie between major projects.  But perhaps that's what makes Steven Soderbergh such an intriguing director. Full Frontal will confuse a lot of viewers. Its look at Los Angeles movie-industry culture has a way of telescoping further and further outwards. Using the visual technique for which he won the Oscar for Best Director on Traffic (he again operates as his own director of photography on this movie under the alias of Peter Andrews), he separates the different storylines and worlds with different visual looks. Much of the film is shot on digital video, giving it a harsh, washed-out look. The movie-within-the-movie is on standard 35mm. And there are two move levels even beyond that, one featuring David Fincher and Brad Pitt. I had trouble gaining full acceptance for Full Frontal. It covers its emotional resonance with layer upon layer of stylization and apathy. He holds the characters at arms length, never really showing any sympathy for their situations. Part of this is his visual style, which, while helpful in understanding the way the movie operates, tends to lend more of a documentary feel to the proceedings. Its wild tonal shifts can throw the viewer off (it's hard to take a movie seriously that has Hitler answering a page), and Catherine Keener's behavior through the first two acts make it difficult to connect with her breakdown in the third. A lot of film geeks will embrace Full Frontal for its cleverness and its outlandishness. But that cleverness comes at the expense of the emotion that does lie at the heart of this story. It's all style and no substance, which is probably what Soderbergh was going for. And for that, it works. But it's difficult to care.  "},{"Title":"I tried to see the whole movie, I really did, but...","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that makes you regret that you bothered to get out of the house. Good actors, was impressed with Blair Underwood's speech in the car with Julia Roberts, but the movie itself was a blur... I found it very boring, even with the sometimes very good play of the actors.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Remember all of those people who tell you hey, this movie is terrific, go watch it! are evil, or suffered so many that they want to share the pain with you.This movie is just pointless. There's nothing to tell about it, because it *is* nothing. "},{"Title":"This will fascinate (and confuse)","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saw this the other night in a 2nd run theater in Times Square.  Bycoincidence, had also seen NOTTING HILL on TV the night before.The two films have Julia Roberts in common, but that's about all.What you're really waiting for is whether this amateur reviewerthinks you should check out FULL FRONTAL, right?  The answer isyes, but only if 1) you're familiar with Godard (and admire hiswork), and 2) you have PATIENCE.This picture was badly marketed during its original release; thestudio had no idea how to sell FF despite the presence of Juliaand Brad.  No wonder -- it's a difficult work which put off audiencesunreceptive to art-house cinema.  This movie really should havebeen distributed and promoted as an art film; it's not mainstreamaudience-friendly.Most of the picture is shot in digital video and it does look crappy,but about 1/3 is shot on film.  The changes in stock during FFsignal the changeover from reality to the movie-within-the-movie.It gradually becomes clear, however, that the reality is itselfanother movie-within-the-movie.  Confused?  If you like Godard, orTarkovsky, or Fassbinder, you'll probably like (or at least admire)FF, too.Dialogue is snappy and it's an interesting cast.  It's great to seeJulia playing along at something so conceptual and experimental,but it's the less high-profile names which really impress.  BlairUnderwood has an amusing extended rap about today's andyesterday's black leading men.  Nicky Katt (who?, right?) ishilarious as Hitler in a store-front theater performance (perhapsthe No. 1 reason to see this film -- you're going to see him againsoon) of The Sound and the Fuehrer.  David Hyde Pierce (KelseyGrammer's TV brother on Frasier) is fantastic, neurotic andhuman and sensitive and smart -- a sympathetic character.  MaryMcCormack is sweet as Catherine Keener's aimless sister.It's a head-scratcher, though; two viewings are recommended. FFis definitely a messy and often hard-to-follow film, but this reviewerbelieves it will be critically re-evaluated (and praised?) in the nearfuture.  The talent involved should be proud of their participation inthis challenging project.  It's a lively addition to Soderbergh'soeuvre -- people, this is one of our generation's auteurs!  Payattention, pay attention. "},{"Title":"twisted","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  it's one of those films that you feel like you should walk out of being like uh, why did i pay 8 bucks for that and yet somehow you instead feel like you enjoyed it, and you'll figure out why in a few days - the mixture of fantasy and fantasy was the key "}{"Title":"Not good, but had its moments","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't mind Steve Soderbergh going back to his roots as an amateur independent, experimental filmmaker (of course now with some of his new buddies like Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt).  I didn't think much of Erin Brokovich or Traffic, and this one with its hand held cameras, jump cutting, and non-linear story reminded me more of The Limey his best film. Nevertheless, it did have its problems including being too self consciously amateurish and confusing.  The film is tedious.  After a while I gave up trying to piece it all together it just didn't seem worth it, for one thing because most of the characters weren't all that interesting anyway.  Also, I'm a bit tired of all these ensamble piece movies that have casts of thousands.  Still, Full Frontal had its moments and some very funny subtle humor.  Loved the smog filled skyline of L.A. shot, and the ending shot of a movie within a movie.  And the conversation between two Los Angelinos, one who is from Miami and the other from New York or somewhere.  And Nicky Katt as Hitler discussing artistic integrity with Georbelles (or however you spell it) on a cell phone.  Did I care how it all fit together?  No.  But I could still appreciate certain scenes of it. "},{"Title":"The Movie That Never Should Have Been Made","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why did Soderbergh make this movie?  Because he could.  Julia Roberts,Brad Pitt, Brad Rowe, David Duchovny, Catherine Keener -- why?   Thisis the kind of clout Soderbergh carries now - he can get all these names into  his little film without a script - a phone call apparently is all that is needed.   Okay, I get part of this film - Hollywood is a slimy, pathetic, shallowplace.  Is that a revelation?  Or how about this this theme  love is betterthan sex.  Yawn.  Yes, the way the film was made was unusual for the bignames, but it is par for the course for those without big names.  Thedifference is, the microbudget films often turn out watchable because thepeople behind them have passion.  The people behind this film had fun.  They had an experiment.   But passion was not here.   The Duchovny gagwas the only mildly enjoyable part of this film.  The rest was just dreary,uninspiring, and confusing (and poorly photographed, I might add).  Avoid.   "},{"Title":"Full Frontal feels like an experimental cinema lab","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILEER---SPOILER---SPOILERFull Frontal is a day in the life of three sets of people in the theater and publishing business.  Set in Los Angeles, our six main characters are invited to celebrate Gus' David Duchovny birthday.  Lee and Carl Catherine Keener and David Hyde Pierce, respectively, who's marriage is on the edge, both work for magazines.  Catherine, a magazine writer, and Nicholas, an actor and aspiring playwright, Julia Roberts and Blair Underwood share a flight to LA while one interviews the other.  Linda, a masseuse, and Artie, a theater director, Mary McCormack and Enrico Colantoni plan to consummate their Internet romance with an intimate weekend.  The day doesn't go according to plan for anyone, least of all Gus who has a surprising orgasmic experience.  Full Frontal feels like an experimental cinema lab that's designed to test the audience's cognitive perceptions.  The film is a movie within a movie within a movie that's not a typographical error folks.  Director Steven Soderbergh, in retrospect, does his audience a favor by incorporating copious clues in the opening credits.  The movie is designed to feel at times like a documentary with uneven cuts, grainy film, inadequate lighting and unsteady camera work.  All this achieves the desired effect, and at the same time provides viewers a considerable intellectual challenge.  Full Frontal has many attributes in common with Memento 2000 and Mulholland Drive 2001, other recent films with interconnecting and / or nonlinear story lines.  Full Frontal is playing at art theaters near you; blink and you'll miss it!  This film helps explain the dearth of good movies in summer 2002; great actors are working quick and dirty low budget films with narrow fan appeal.  That's not to say this movie's an artistic failure, viewers just need an acquired taste to enjoy it. The film's name is meant to support the whisper campaign that Julia Roberts America's sweetheart flashes skin for the cameras---she does not!!  This is the first year in nearly a decade that Roberts, for example, didn't have a big summer release for mass viewing.  "},{"Title":"soderbergh's refreshing return to interesting filmmaking","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is the first soderbergh film i've enjoyed since the limey.  whilemessy and frustrating at times, it's infinitely more interesting thanerin brockovich, traffic, or the thoroughly annoying ocean's 11. perhaps it's proof that the director is at his best when he's notmaking films for the mainstream.  here's to soderbergh'sexperimentation. "},{"Title":"opinion","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie concept has been done before, but, I daresay, much more successfully.  One example would be the movie Playing By Heart - where we, as the viewer, follow a host of characters and see all their lives tied together by a string at the end.  Full Frontal made its feeble attempt to align itself with the idea that if you keep the audience guessing, you keep the audience interested.  That could not be further from the truth.  While watching this movie, the most interesting thing that happened to me was when I saw a group of people leaving the theatre.  Watching these people walk out was more interesting than the movie.  Unfortunately for me, it only took the people about 10 seconds to walk out whereas the movie droned on for well over an hour.Full Frontal was slow-paced, slow-witted and thoroughly uninteresting. There were a couple of good emotional scenes, well-played by Katherine Keener and David Hyde Pierce.  But aside from that, the movie was a bust. Drama is seen by the dramatic arts community as a heightened sense of reality.  The intention is to take the audience on a wonderful ride. What Soderbergh did with Full Frontal was take reality and leave it at the same level where it started, maybe even down-played it a bit.  He took the audience on a wonderful nap.  The scenes that were supposed to be somewhat humorous barely qualified as mildly funny.  It was a disappointing movie all around. "},{"Title":"A Little Too Confusing","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Even though it was a Soderbergh film, it was not as good as I hoped. The plot was extremely confusing.  Especially when half the movie was shot on a handheld digital camera.  The cast was maybe the high point of the film with Julia Roberts, David Duchovny, and a cameo by Brad Pitt. If you missed a minute of the film, then you would most likely get lost. It was a movie within a movie and it was too confusing.  There were a couple good moments in the film especially during the Hitler scenes, but in all I would not see it again.  I was expecting a lot better  "},{"Title":"A lot of fun.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised and not surprised to see so many negative reviews of this film.  Surprised because I thoroughly enjoyed the film, and not surprised because I can see how its art-house fare wouldn't appeal to fans of Traffic and Out of Sight and so forth.  However, the acting in the film was phenomenal and very realistic, it makes you feel as though you're watching a documentary.  There are also a number of hilarious moments in the film, specifically with Catherine Keener and Nicky Katt's performances.  Cheers. "},{"Title":"An experiment gone wrong!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Giving its director the benefit of the doubt and the freedom to express himself in this experimental film as he called it himself in a recent interview I saw, is one thing, however to be lured and mislead to watch it by putting big name stars on its rooster is too much even for myself.I don't mind and experiment in movie making and as strictly as such this would not have been an awful thing to watch. But being marketed it as a full blown motion picture with big name stars is a distortion of its own nature and intention only for the sake of making money for those who created it and distributed it.Truly experimental films are usually exposed to film festival audiences and then gain reputation or not by their own weight, and some even make it to the theaters near you, but being fooled by some market research group located somewhere in suburbia, is like being force to eat something out of embarrassment when you asked for something in a menu (that you are not too sure of) and then being presented with something you cannot swallow.This is a truly an openly unashamed way to make money by simply fooling the public at large. More than a movie it is an experiment betraying its creator past and indulgence in film developing and camera technique. It is an excuse to impose heavy unpleasant images that are only interesting in the intellectual or academic aspect of movie making.But this is not for sitting and trying to assimilate as a form of entertainment or stimulation, if anything was stimulated they were my feet to start running for the nearest exit and ask for a refund at the box office (and on top feeling truly ashamed to admit that I was lured to pay with my hard earned money to watch some one's experiment.)  "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I cant stop talking about this movie... It was inspirational and filled with mind blowing moments life like moments. It was totally real. When the movie was over I was still putting together the details that created linkage through the story to the end.  It was a brilliant artistic work and what films should strive to be like. "},{"Title":"By the time it was over, I loved it","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie took a bit of work to make it all the way through, as evidenced by those people who either walked out or claim they didn't enjoy it, but by the time it was all said and done, I thought it was quite entertaining and thought-provoking.  Duchovny was hilarious (the Mulder reference was definitely appreciated by this fan), and I couldn't agree more with those who thought Keener was fabulous.  Actually, I thought everyone was great. It was one of those rare movies that makes me look forward to the DVD -- and there better be a commentary (nobody gives better commentary than Soderbergh)!  As someone else mentioned, be sure to stay through the credits -- there's a nice little treat at the end. "}{"Title":"Oh my god what a mess of a movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every once in a while I will take a break the big summer blockbuster and see one of those intellectual, thought provoking films that people are always talking about.  I don't think I'll do that anymore.  I haven't checked my watch so much since I saw Vanilla Sky.  There's about an hour and a half worth of what I guess you could call character development but there's no point in that when the plot is virtually non-existent.  I was dizzy after the first 5 mins or so of bad camera work and frustrated by the grainy 35mm. It brought back horrible memories of being in college and having to critique pathetic student films.  I would rather have stayed home to watch Glitter or Crossroads than watch this piece of S.  I'm pretty sure that the only people who liked this film also enjoyed Mulholland Drive.If I had to pull out any positives about this film, it would probably be Catherine Keener but argh...  this film was so bad!   "},{"Title":"Run... don't walk from this one.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When the highlight of a film is counting the number of people who walked out in the middle of the film (23), you're in for a long time in the seat. The majority of the film was shot with what appeared to be slow stock, pushed beyond its limits, and no interior lighting. The result was a  gigantic headache visually, often the subject so many stops of light under the light source that one wasn't sure who was even in the scene. When the subject was correctly exposed, blinding back lighting from natural sources distracted. The film and the lighting were the best part of the flick........ Soderberg owes me 6 bucks. One out of ten Bearclaws "},{"Title":"A nice little movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Soderburgh here has shown he can still make the little movies that were his stock in trade before ERIN BROKOVICH and TRAFFIC vaulted him to the A-list. This film, a traditional indie flick with grainy video, ensemble cast but no single star, interlocking but separate story lines, has a lot to please the discerning viewer.  Although the plot resolution ultimately shows Soderburgh to have a heart of gold (which I would never begrudge him), the film resists sentimentality.  All in all, a great flick.CAVEAT  I think this movie succeeds without the signature plot trick, i.e. the nesting of films within films within films.  One level of nesting, or perhaps two, might have been enough. "},{"Title":"I don't care that it was shot in three weeks, and has a speaking cameo with Brad Pitt as himself. I liked it anyways.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal -Just so there's no confusion, I will start off by stating that I liked this movie. This likely makes me part of a very small minority, judging from the feedback I've read and heard to date. However, I don't really care what other people think of this movie. Just as I don't care that it was shot in three weeks, and has a speaking cameo with Brad Pitt as himself. I liked it anyways.Sure, it has Director's Experimental Art Film written all over it. It's not your run of the mill, linear style of cinematic storytelling. It's an easily confusing, sporadically funny, and often neurotic 'behind the scenes/slice of life' offering that seemed at times as though it had been edited together backwards. That is, until the jumbled pieces surrounding a forty-one year-old birthday girl/human resources exec, a magazine columnist, two movie actors, a theatre manager, a masseuse, and a birthday boy/entertainment producer all fall neatly together near the end. As things usually do, with 20/20 hindsight, in real life. And, I'm not quite sure what Soderbergh was trying to do with the film-within-a-film scenarios that are interwoven throughout the two secondary tales and what ends up being the main saga. Unless they were inserted as either crisp visual breaks from this picture's predominantly grainy self-conscious 35mm look, or as a clever device used to reflect a certain mindset regarding love. At any rate, this one is pretty heavy on the process of letting events just happen Real World-like, and is fairly light on spoon feeding a lazy audience looking for a bit of eye candy to go with their buttery popcorn tastes.As I've alluded to, 'Full Frontal' is about love. Actually, several meaty yet subduely presented love stories about a handful of characters whose meandering, unnecessarily complicated lives intersect at various moments over a twenty-four hour time frame. Sometimes, love seems to be hiding in the background, as it is for our main married protagonists (played vulnerably well by Catherine Keeler and David Hyde Pierce). Sometimes, love is solely based on email-induced fantasy. Sometimes, love takes on a rather narcissistic flavour (this is about people in the entertainment industry, after-all). And sometimes, love just has to do with finding descreet indiscretions to maintain a tenuous sanity. Where this film slightly faulters is that these variations on this same theme get pushed aside by the director's almost insatiable need to get inside the screwed up heads of these screwed up lives. I suppose this is to make each character humanistically interesting - which it does - but, I can see how the absence of an obvious Hollywood plot to follow would put off a lot of mainstream movie-goers. Too bad for the majority. I liked it. "},{"Title":"I was confused at the start, but then I really enjoyed it.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal is for those of us who are interested in the behind the scenes world of movie actors and producers.  It starts off with many characters and what seems to be many different stories, but all the stories intersect as the movie progresses.  If you are impatient, this movie is not for you.  The first thirty minutes leave you saying, Huh?  If you follow the stories, you will be rewarded with numerous funny lines and sexy situations. The story is about the making of a movie.  Much of Full Frontal was shot on consumer DV, so the picture is grainy and intentionally out of focus.  Don't let this scare you away though, because the story is funny and complex.  The movie forces you to use your brain.Nicky Katt steals the show with his portrayal of a pompous theater actor who stars as Hitler in a little theater original production about the life of Hitler. This movie is a must for Soderbergh fans.  "},{"Title":"the emperor's got no clothes","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  maybe I just don't get it...but then again maybe this film doesn't accomplish what it set out to do...or maybe it is incompetent writing and directing...anyway this is a mish mash melee of scenes and plots that really don't work that well together...there are a few funny scenes so I give the film a 2 out of 10 instead of a 1 out of 10 but overall unless you have absolutely nothing to do then you might want to skip this film "},{"Title":"Full Frontal A Full Mess","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The good news is that director Stephen Soderbergh's string of impressive successes has given him the latitude and the power (and the money!) to experiment with films guaranteed not to be blockbusters.  The bad news is exactly the same and Full Frontal is an artistic failure for Soderbergh and the talented cast who crawl through this ill-defined, largely senseless film.Described in one published review as an experimental art film and viewed by some as the director's link to his groundbreaking Sex, Lies and Videotape, Full Frontal takes the hardly novel idea of a movie within a movie to a confused and amorphous state (perhaps the novelty here is a movie-within-a-movie-within-a-movie).The plot, if there really is one, isn't worth describing.  Spoilers here would have to rise to the level of a lengthy dissection.  While Soderbergh undoubtedly wanted to make a statement about the nature of Hollywood filmmaking, he succeeds only in showing that unanchored freedom to direct can lead to failure to communicate.  That's not news.There are big names here.  Julia Roberts substitutes slumming for acting and Brad Pitt is a momentary irrelevant annoyance.  Only Catherine Keener, a truly outstanding actress, invests her role with depth but it floats without viable connection to those around her.Soderbergh utilizes alternating sharp focus with blurry shots from hand-held cameras.  While this approach can be effective, its use requires some thinking about purpose.  If there was such thought here it eludes me.  Another fifteen minutes of jerky and unfocused scenes would have made me need Dramamine.There are film mavens who will and do say that Full Frontal has a deep meaning that can be gleaned through incisive viewing plus reliance on their observations.  If one is inclined to be so other-directed, fine. From my seat I saw little depth.  But we all know Soderbergh will get back to real work soon, no?1/10 (that/s harsh, isn't it?). "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever Made!!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A boring and self indulgent tribute to bad student filmakers of the sixties. This is easily the worst movie ever made. It's so bad I don't even want to go to films anymore if this is the future of film. A confusing movie within a movie within a movie. Bad performances with BAD directing and BAD gimicky photography. "},{"Title":"soderberg proves to be the american godard and traufaut","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With full frontal soderberg's maturity and credentials to being the american godard and traufaut is complete. soderberg's mastery of the filmic and audio and visual image in the resurrection of the thematic structure and complete identity with those who would deconstruct the filmic to create the new brechtian imagery is akin to the new wave and altman. This film is amazing on so many levels. one is akin to compare it to traufaut's day for night but it's transcending of that film on so many levels does not do it credit. Tarintino for all his overblown rhetoric has not even come close to soderberg's transcending of the visual image, the use of the hand held camera, the use of over and under exposure as a reflextive measure to comment on film's semantic and thematic aura is unparelled in the modern era, the giddy jump cuts which sneak up on the audience is nowhere to be found in the tarintino filmography. soderberg truly is a band apart.  "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked it.  I've seen better, but I've also seen much worse.*Spoiler*What I felt Soderbergh was doing by splicing pieces of Rendezvous into the rest of the movie was making the audience split the movie (Full Frontal) into two parts the movie (34 mm scenes) part and the real (hand-held scenes) part.  Then, at the end, he forces you to remember/realize that even what you perceived as the real part of the film, is still just a film.On a side note, Catherine Keener is amazing. "}{"Title":"Fair Warning!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Complete waste of money and time. Most of the audience left well into the movie and ones that stayed were forced to entertain themselves. One audience member said it was torture!!! Goes to show you that when some people get plenty of money and are being told they are a genious, you really see what kind of garbage they are really capable of. "},{"Title":"It's not about the movie. It's about the project.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some stuff had never been done in a movie. Steven Soderbergh, film historian as he is, knew it was up for grabs, took it and wrote his name under it. Forever. On the timeline of motion picture history, Soderbergh managed to enhance his already secure position even further.I enjoyed Full Frontal. I watched it until the very last frame. Of course, if you walked out of the theater during the end credits, you missed a tiny little something. As was to be expected.David Hyde Pierce must be mentioned here. His acting is exceptional.David Duchovny. He is the boldest guy in tinseltown. (Of course Paul Verhoeven did this in my country in the 70's, so great that you guys are catching up!)Julia Roberts. She DOES act differently when she's less self conscious! Plus, it is appealing to watch her on images that look like you made them yourself.Full Frontal is not about the movie. It's about the project. The film is basically an unavoidable byproduct of something else acting. Thus, another fairly important part of the filmmaking process, everything technical, was pretty much ignored. But who cares, it was never about that. There was a camera, it was pointed in the right direction, it captured it, you saw it.Steven, well done! Don't let it happen again.(8/10) "},{"Title":"From an aspring filmmaker myself....I loved this film","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Personally I think this film is for film students and the movie buff type audience.  Well I loved it.  There wasn't much of a plot, it's kind of like watching a documentary.  But I think what made this film enjoyable was the resolution, you can say that most of the film was just a big build up to the resolution.  I guess it's how Sex, Lies, and Videotape was like, what made that film worthwhile was the resolution of everything.  Overall the acting was good and realistic, I'm not much of a Julia Roberts fan, but her performance was satisfactory.  But the character I think I love the most is of course Nicky Katt's character Hitler!Now for my opinion for this film being shot with a Digital Video Camera. I remember reading Roger Ebert's review saying this film looked like a student film. Personally I don't care too much about the quality of the pic, yeah digtial video transferred to film does look like crap compared to 35mm. As you have a good story, good acting, and whatever you shoot it with, it can work.  There are benefits of shooting in digital video, it's a lot cheaper and there's more of the run and gun style of filmmaking and the process if a lot faster.  All I have to say is whatever works.Soderbergh proves that you can make a film regardless on how you make it. Just as long as there is a good story, good acting, and good direction. Ebert called this a Student Film.  If Soderbergh decided to direct a science fiction film in his backyard with his kids as the characters, then I would call that a student film. "},{"Title":"Pretty horrible","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Full Frontal' has the dubious honor of being the first movie I've actually walked out on. While the actors do a very decent job, the movie is just completely uninteresting, goes nowhere, and leaves you wondering it was made in the first place. Do yourself a favor, and stay away from this garbage. "},{"Title":"it's a bird, it's a plane, it's an onion of a movie!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll say it frankly--I just did not get this movie.  Don't get me wrong--it's not the acting that bothered me, that was actually quite good, but the plot.... Plot was not working. Too many characters doing too many different things that were altogether not funny. It did get a few chuckles out of me, but it was more like gross out chuckles than funny chuckles. However, I do see how this movie might be interesting to some people, it is after all about how art imitates life and life imitates art.This movie is an onion in more sense than one; it is a movie within a movie within a movie held together by a stalk of a red envelope, however it's also bitter and sharp and stinky to a general public, but might be quite appealing to movie gourmands yearning for something different. "},{"Title":"It had some good concepts but it didn't pull together over all.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This extremely experimental film was very hard to get into. This movie is probably one of the most character-based movies I've ever seen; There is almost no story what-so-ever. I usually like character-based movies, because the same plot structures are over-used way too much in movies today. This character movie, however, just didn't work for me because all the main characters in the movie had so little to do with eachother. There are about 3 or 4 seperate small stories within the movie involving a couple characters each, but in the end they don't all relate well enough. Traffic was a wonderful film that succeeded in doing what this film didn't. In traffic there were about 3 or 4 (depending on how you look at it) different stories going on. At first they seem unrelated but in the end they all merge together for a final showdown. This is how Full Frontal should have been, but there was just too little of a connection between the various stories to create any effect. My favorite part about the movie however is the little twist they add in the last 30 seconds of the movie. This movie also has very interesting themes, involving the obscurness of Hollywood filmmaking. It is mostly a satire on Hollywood filmmaking, much like Mulholland Drive. This movie had good intentions but the script lacked the structure that the story needed. "},{"Title":"Full of themselves","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film while being not very good, is also a bit of an insult to filmmakers who can't afford to shoot on film, or to hire Julia Roberts to act in their movies. It's like a nose-thumbing to all the indies who haven't made it like Mr. Soderberg. This may not be intentional, and I hope it isn't, but one comes away with a feeling that the filmmakers here have no regard for the audience.I assume that critics who do like this movie will chalk the harsh critiques up to people 'Not getting it'...well, I 'Get it' but I also recognize that there's not much to get. Other than crappy looking DV work (if you're going to use it, use it to it's potential), Blair Witch seems like A Conrad Hall lensed film by comparison.This may set back DV filmmakers a ways and keep barriers for mainstream theatrical releases up high. In the back of my mind I wonder if it might even be the intention of the filmmakers to do this, a sort of 'Not So Fast' to those who are trying to break down doors with their indie film projects originating on DV. That would be sad, it already is. This sub-par effort by all involved has crowded multi-plexes and will make theater owners think twice next time they hear about some DV feature coming to a theater near you...NOT SO FAST! "},{"Title":"Do Something Real","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is a lot more to this movie than a Hollywood portrayal or a self-conscious indulgence.  If you pay attention and dig a little deeper you'll see the recurring theme is to do something real, which almost everyone in the movie fails to do.  At the end, you think it's happening at last (in a pretty interesting way), and realize it is yet another movie set. This makes it a lot more than a character study (who are the characters? - it's certainly not a study of the character's character, who we know better than the characters themselves) or self conscious Hollywood (who is the self?).  I thought it was extremely well done and thought provoking. "},{"Title":"One of the worse movies I have ever seen.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's long awaited sequel to Sex, Lies and Videotape, is probably one of the worse movies I have ever seen.  The story centers on the relationships of different Hollywood actors, crew and other workers as the 40th birthday of their friend and producer, Gus(David Duchovny) approaches.  The two main characters, Francesca(Julia Roberts) and Calvin(Blair Underwood) are actors filming a love story as Nicholas(Underwood), an actor and Catherine(Roberts), a magazine reporter.  After the director yells cut, we find that Calvin and Francesca are part of a larger story which includes  Calvin is sneaking around on his long time girlfriend with Lee(Catherine Keener) who is unhappily married to Carl(David Hyde Pierce).  Francesca is a lonely woman in search of what ever will fill that void.  Lee's sister Linda is looking for love on the internet.Lee and Calvin fight, they separate. Calvin goes back to his girlfriend. Lee over hears Carl unburdening himself to a  Veternarian Assistant and realizes what she would have lost if she had actually left Carl.  Francesca finally connects with a guy at the birthday party which gives her a moment of hope for the future.The problems I had with this film were the story-this story was a character study of several different people, but failed, as it became a convaluted mess of Hollywood angst and reminded me of a soap opera; The switching of cameras-this caused the movie to be uneven and confused the different stories.  I had to sit down and actually go over the movie in my head, before I could actually separate the two stories;  The acting  Roberts and Underwoods performances were wooden and flat and I find it amazing that in the 5 or 6 minutes he was on the screen, David Duchovny's Gus garnered more emotion from the audience I was with than Roberts and Underwood combine. Keener's Lee was on the verge of hysteria most of the movie.  There were bright spots, however, especially in the performance of David Hyde Pierce as Carl, who probably single-handedly made this film work.  Mary McCormacks Linda was a likeable character searching for love and actually finding it in an airport heading for Tucson, Arizona with a smalltime playwrite and director.  Niether realized they were e-pals.I guess the best advice I can give about this movie was in the persons of three patrons in the audience I was with.  They got up half-way through the movie and left.  They didn't return.   "},{"Title":"great great great","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie is not for the masses. it mixes styles used by the dogme95 directors, as well as the good ole hollywood style to create an amalagam of images and sounds.SPOILERSnow by no means is this a dogme95 per se, it looks dogme 95, and at times had elements of films like, julien donkey boy (crazy catherine keener interviewing her co-workers so reminded me of werner herzog yelling at his son that he has to be a winner), FESTEN, with the party going on upstairs, and everyone assembling to come together, its almost as if this is what happened before festen, when everyone was getting ready to go to the party, and at times, totaly homages other dogme like mifune and idioterne.i truly enjoyed all the characters, especially nicky katt and catherine keener.  Myself being a filmmaker have had many conversations with actors like the one played by nicky, and from my perspective, seeing as many of the characters were somehow linked to the movie biz, have had versions of many of the conversations, the whole, I worked on the lighting crew line to julia roberts.overall, i enjoyed the film very much, as I have every other film by soderburgh.  He is a truly different and important filmmaker for are times. maybe the most important. "}{"Title":"And the point of the movie was... ?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just got back from having seen this movie tonight at the Academy of Arts and Sciences here in Hollywood and from where I was sitting on the right side of the room, I saw 7 people walk out before the end- frankly I was thinking of it myself, but wanted to wait- desperately hoping for a comprehensive ending (I was disappointed).What was Soderbergh thinking? It was as if he was just trying to be too artsy with a few too many very blurry scenes (c.f. when Keener and Underwood are having sex) and strangely shot hand held digital sequences. Why would Roberts, Pitt, Pierce (...) choose to do a film like this- did they not read the script through? I guess I just didn't grasp the meaning of the film- if there was one. What was the whole movie-in-a-movie-in-a-movie-in-a-movie thing going on? I had no idea- and still don't- what was the story and what was the movie that they were putting together in the story!Another aspect the really bothered me was David Hyde Pierce's annoying resemblance to Woody Allen- at least in voice and expression (unfinished sentences, nervousness, hesitance). As much as I appreciate Allen, we don't need another one of him around! On the subject of characters, why Hitler (Katt) was there, I have no idea the theater world was an entirely different story in itself, seemingly linked only by the budding McCormack/Colantoni romance (McCormack's character being the only one that I actually liked, by the way) and his bewildering cameo(or was it) in the movie within the movie.Basically, I came out this evening very much disappointed and confused; what was that kept running through my head... I think it is obvious that this film was made in 18 days as a type of wouldn't it be cool if we put this idea on film project. Hopefully, all of these wonderfully talented people will come back with something great (A.S.A.P). "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Soderberg = great. Full Frontal = terrible.I felt like this was a joke by Steven Soderberg who, unitl this, has never made a bad movie in my opinion. While the actors played their parts well, and there were very brief hints of humor, the general clumsiness of the production, along with a plot that simply was not evident made this unbearable to watch.The only reason I didn't walk out was because I figured it had to get better. It didn't.What this does show is just how impressive Soderberg's record is. He has assembled an all-star cast, none of which other than Mary McCormick showed any real range, and gotten them to swallow this film.I can't imagine anyone who could honestly come out of this film and think it was worth the 100 minutes of their life that they are not getting back. "},{"Title":"Art vs. artifice","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Coming hard on the heels of the slick Ocean's Eleven and the Oscar-winning duo of Erin Brockovich and Traffic, Steven Soderbergh's Full Frontal may be seen as a slap in the face. Point of fact, it is more like a wake-up call, akin to the guerilla-style filmmaking of Schizopolis, a film it resembles in more ways than one. This time, however, Soderbergh uses a digital camera to produce some astonishingly ugly images (especially when compared to the scenes from Rendezvous, the handsomely-mounted film-within-a-film, which are intercut with it), but it's all in the service of a frequently clever and well-acted character study. And besides, who cares how good-looking a film is if it's vapid and artificial?On the acting front, Catherine Keener and David Hyde Pierce stand out as the married couple reaching an impasse, but Nicky Katt damn near steals the movie as a dictatorial actor playing Hitler in a play whose name should not be spoiled. His scenes alone make the whole thing worth it. "},{"Title":"in soderbergh i trust","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one fine ass piece of work.  It just makes me happy inside knowing that a big ass like Soderbergh is willing to make a straight off the wall crazy little film.  And what a little film it is.  If your just a Roberts fan please don't see this movie.  But if you are a lover of film... ohh me goodness.  Don't listen to the DV bashers.  It lends the movie a very unique look, I for one had to cringe at all 34mm work.  All i wanted was DV.  All of the acting is superb, nicky katt really steals every scene he is in. Its madness.  Most of all it will make you laugh.  I mean DP= sven jurgen...  "},{"Title":"One of those Movies You have to see to Judge...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal  ***1/2 starsThis movie is extremley intriguing, and that's all I can pretty much say about this picture.. This is a type of movie that the plot cannot be told, you have to watch it to figure it out for yourself, much like Mulholland Dr..  But this is real and twisted.  All you really really NEED to know, is that all of the characters come in common at the end, except for one.. and those characters I felt have no use in the film. "},{"Title":"weird and innovative, yet, not very entertaining.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie about a movie... what would you think?that sounds interesting, I wonder how they're going to pull that off is exactly what I thought.  And indeed Full Frontal was interesting.  It was innovative, different, and at times funny.There's a 'but'.But, I wasn't completely satisfied.  You could tell that the camera work, the sound, the lighting... was all part of the movie's style and essence. Unfortunately, it gave off an incomplete type feeling.I dont particularly recommend this movie, but if you want to see something completely out of the ordinary, that is if you dont mind the boredom... then by all means- dig in. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and amusing","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember that some people complained about The Red Violin being too confusing to follow. Oh please. This film is no different if you have an attention span longer than the 90-second variety, you will have no trouble following the story and character relationships in this movie.This is sex, lies and videotape Soderbergh, not Ocean's Eleven Soderbergh. The plot doesn't jump around in time, but it does jump from character to character. Yes, there is a story, but the film's focus is on the relationships between the characters - between sisters, between lovers, between actors and directors, between spouses, etc. It never gets overly deep, but it is thoughtful and moving. Hollywood and the movies are simply the backdrop to these explorations.The comedy here is intelligent, sexual, and referential. The funny bits are often visual, and often at the expense of the film-making and theatrical industries.Catherine Keener turns in an excellent performance. The big name cast members do fine as well, but it's the lesser known names who really shine.If you go to see this because you liked Ocean's Eleven, you may be disappointed. It's not a fun, slick, eye-candy-type romp through sexy Hollywood. But if you are looking for an intelligent and amusing little film which explores the relationships between some broken people while laughing at the movie industry, you will likely enjoy this one very much. "},{"Title":"The wizard of id","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The oft-ridiculed tag line--Everybody needs a release--refers to the auteur as much as anybody else. A real audience-closer-outer in the fashion of KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE and Godard's LEAR, FULL FRONTAL is all about layering multiple voiceovers, tired meta boxes within boxes, jackass comedy butting up against Cassavetesian soul-baring, cameos and allusions and off-the-cuff gags careening against a bleakness of tone unique in Soderbergh's work. The movie is about stitching and gluing, about varying thicknesses it suggests more a cinematic version of Wassily Kandinsky's Lego-like Boogie-Woogie canvases more than Soderbergh's usual agreeably American Rauschenberg-like impasto. The meat of the matter, the stuff of the thing, is rather unfortunately close to the L.A. Times' Lifestyle articles, or a West- side-yup heartbreak article from Los Angeles magazine (whose offices feature prominently in the movie). But it's the treatment that's the thing. One senses that Soderbergh set up a process, cut up the carrots, skinned the potatoes, poured it all into a pot--and saw what came out with the same stunned, was-I-even-there? amazement that the audience has seeing it for the first time.If there's a coherent idea to the movie, it's that life has tended to feel more and more like a collection of movie moments--echoed by the movie's nightmarish movie-within-a-movie-withinness. The penetration of Planet Entertainment into the Former Republic of Reality is given a clinical, almsot biopsy-like sharp focus. But what's more dazzling about the picture is its privileged moments. Soderbergh seems to have studied Chantal Akerman and Godard (particularly TWO OR THREE THINGS and NUMERO DEUX--not the cute early stuff everybody else likes) there are moments when Catherine Keener, as a sadistic, melting-down director of personnel, falls apart on camera that seem to come directly from one of those Gallic auteurs' seventies pictures. Soderbergh's meak/meen use of Julia Roberts couldn't be more fascinating. On one hand more star-dazzling than ever, she also plays your worst fears about who Julia Roberts might be--brilliantly. (In perhaps the movie's most stunningly multi-edged moment, Roberts stands around at a party saying, There's lots of good chromium! In fact, I LOVE chromium!--a sick joke on the sick (real) people in ERIN BROCKOVICH.)Some of Soderbergh's choices defy logic. Casting TV dullards like David Hyde Pierce and Blair Underwood in giant roles (in which they tremble visibly in fear at the Soderbergh-Julia titanicness of it all) goes beyond perversity to a kind of hari-kiri. But the movie's much-derided ugly digital video has its own logic. Soderbergh plays up the tangibly video-esque, the palpable and painterly part of that ugly image, rather than opting for the faux-movieish DV of John Bailey's work in THE ANNIVERSARY PARTY. The result is a processional of images so powerfully eye-soreish you might feel you're in a video dupe of an early Warhol movie.FULL FRONTAL doesn't have the Aaah, satisfying! quality of most of Soderbergh's recent home-run fare--but it is built deliberately not to. No working American filmmaking is more daring, more outre, more committed to his own artistic journey--or more willing to turn the Love me button on or off. "},{"Title":"Soderbergh as cosmic masseuse, two hours of clarity, et cetera","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How can a film of the moment seem so new? The answer to this paradox of paradoxes resides in the relation of a sometimes-symbolic fact about the cinema's apparatus to Steven Soderbergh's latest If the screen is merely reflective, then Full Frontal is a double-sided mirror spinning round its axis at a revolution rate so very close to 24 times per second. Therefore it is hardly coincidence that this motion picture's motion is thoroughly therapeutic; it is a genuine work of art as it contains nothing artistic; in its every instant, it demonstrates to us how we must live, and therefore how to live in life's any given instant. In other words, this naked film whispers, understand, over and over again. Soderbergh immerses himself, the cast, the crew, and us so deeply into this movie of movies so that we can come out of it not only unsoiled but cleansed as well (note the last line of the movie It was like -out- of a movie.); now, I dare to ask you, which other film yet made can make us honestly believe in that conviction as strongly as this one? Watching this film capture the butterfly of truth in its knowing hand only to gleefully let it go so that it can seize it yet again, I know in my heart that this is the greatest thing yet created the only question left is whether Soderbergh should make another film, the doubt of course arising of out of the reasonable fear that he might fail to surpass this one. However, if we embrace life itself (as Soderbergh has), the only sane answer is (simply as (a) we must protect our hope for progress, and (b) only an honest review of Full Frontal can end with the following words) Yes, yes, et cetera.  "},{"Title":"Five or Six can't miss moments","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Overall, the film was pretty entertaining, however, this was the Austin premiere and having Nicky Katt there in person was as if someone held a laugh or applause sign up through the entire flick.  On its own, it certainly is not Stephens best work but he did quite a bit with only 18 days of work.David Hyde Pierce was probably the highlight and Nicky Katt gave a memorable performance.  For acting and quick wit, check it out, for a story that makes sense, go see something else. "}{"Title":"Hard to follow but that doesn't seem to matter","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  About half-way through this movie I gave up trying to follow it, and it didn't seem to matter.  We see scenes of people whose only commonality seems to be that they have all been invited to the same party that night.  The editor must have found this an easy gig, as the scenes have little if nothing to do with one another, and we jump from one scene to another with no apparent reason.  To add to the mix, some scenes seem to be from a movie being made within the movie.Most of the dialogue seemed to be improvised.  That it was improvised well, and done so by a lot of likeable actors, made the movie entertaining, if incomprehensible.Caveat it's shot in digital video and I found the blurriness tiring after a while.  "},{"Title":"Vastly Misunderstood","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" FULL FRONTAL = A FILM VASTLY MISUNDERSTOOD. A masterpiece that should be seen by any film student or film enthusiast. Vastly misunderstood by the masses, this film examines people as are and should be. The (public's) general consensus fails to recognize the film's beauty as a story about humanity and human error. The form, which encompasses both film and digital video, is initially jarring but soon becomes a guide to help learn about characters. The cameos do little but emphasize the importance of the director and his impact he potentially has upon the industry. This film is best seen in context with Full Frontal and Bubble. "},{"Title":"Every great artist has their bad moments","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Boring, pointless, pedantic, self-important, annoying, jerky,mystifying...I turned it off after 30 minutes of this. What a shame.What a waste of talent. To be fare, I was tired and in the mood for something lighter (likeOcean's Eleven). Maybe someday, if someone gives me a VERYgood reason, I'll try again. "},{"Title":"Have you seen 'Adaptation'?In a similar vein with a lot more sophistication.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So 'Adaptation' was good right? Everyone loved the way the movie seamlessly moved in and out of real life and fiction. Or at least it moved between what the film makers identified as real life and fiction. 'Full Frontal' plays with similar issues, but you can't help feeling that it does so on a whole new level to 'Adaptation'. For a start, the fiction is fictional at times we can't be sure how many layers of film we are watching. So it's a film within a film within a film? Maybe. It builds a pretence that lets us assume that some characters are real and others are not, but it still hints at the fact that 'hey hey kids! This Is Hollywood!'. Where 'Adaptation' was glossy, 'Full Frontal' builds its realities within different qualities of film. It sucks you in with a 'looks so real it must be' trickery that really works. Okay, so there have been loads of complaints about the quality of film, but it's all purposeful, it's asking those all-important questions that films such as 'Adaptation' only just touch upon. It wants us to evaluate all the things we know about Hollywood, the actors on screen, the people behind the camera, but it wants us to laugh as we do it. It wants us to be able to watch a film within a film within a film within a film (it really is that many!) and understand, without too much explanation its ideas. Interweaving various plotlines we are shown many narratives and POVs. This film wants us to know its characters and not in a self-deprecating way ('Adaptation' was good, and honest, but it never really opened up). At times it seems to be about watching, we are watching a film after all, and about how one thing tanscribes into many others. That thing appears to be about love, but the film is far too complex for me to begin to unravel it. All of these characters are evaluating their lives, just as the film asks us to evaluate everything we see. Don't be put off by bad reviews. This is an extremely intelligent movie, and despite being a little abstract succeeds on many levels. As interesting as it is artful, this shows Soderberg at his best, shying away from Hollywood whilst having his usual stint of A-list actors present. If you want a bit of eye-candy and a relaxing night in hire 'Ocean's 11'.  But if you want to see Hollywood doing something out of the ordinary, see 'Full Frontal'. And even though it's out of the ordinary, expect the usual score of A-list cameos, because they're always entertaining! "},{"Title":"A Movie Within A Movie Within A Movie... Etc.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal is the ultimate exercise in Hollywood masturbation. It's a movie . within a movie . WITHIN A MOVIE. Is this clever, or merely solipsistic? If you've seen any of Soderbergh's better films, I'd recommend you stick to those and avoid this one. Among the many detracting points, the lighting is terrible (half of the film is shot on digital video . with lower production values than many of your own home movies), and the cast seems to know that it's all an in joke. Ha ha! Hollywood is soulless!! But who gives a damn? There's no way into this film. None of the characters are worth identifying with. even after you are allowed to realize that half of them are merely characters in ANOTHER movie ABOUT a movie. Jesus. are there really no new ideas? Is the next Soderbergh film going to be about the bowel movements of Hollywood heavyweights? Skip it and rent `Traffic' again. "},{"Title":"Dont waste your money - they didn't","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie was made for next to nothing & it shows. the movie within a movie has been done so many times before & better. julia roberts looks like she's slumming. i think it's supposed to be a comedy & there are a couple funny scenes involving david ducovney - but everything seems second rate - a knock off by a gifted director.   "},{"Title":"Do NOT read any reviews of this film.. .","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" . . .except THIS one, of course, which will not spoil anything for you, I promise.  I will just tell you that only Soderberg could have pulled off this audaciously brilliant (or brilliantly audacious) and challenging highwire act, a cool little head trip, a dazzling intellectual exercise of a film.  Can't wait for the dvd.  "},{"Title":"plot as shaky as the camerawork","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Now we know what Soderbergh (and Von Trier) would have done if he were old enough for 8mm make a day-in-the-lives documentary of a group of related people and throw in a film (within a film (within a film (etc))) theme, producing not so much a confusing, but a thoroughly uninteresting film. Ala David Lynch, this is the director's film, and he'll do whatever he damn well pleases with continuity, plot twists, and character development regardless of how well it connects with the audience.  The message is that Soderbergh is the artiste, and if the film doesn't satisfy, then tough.Beyond the ranting, I just could not recommend this to anyone I know, unless they were a closet Blair Underwood fan.  I don't even want to think about the mainstream audience who might wander into this based upon Julia Roberts... "},{"Title":"Horrible, Terrible, Waste!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie only cost $2 Million! &#150; You can tell.The actors chose their own wardrobe! &#150; You can tellThe all time worst vanity film ever made by a Hollywood Director -  You can tell!  "},{"Title":"A failed experiment","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh is a talented director, and I respect his decision to do a low-budget picture, but this movie didn't do it for me.  I am a firm believer that visuals take a back seat to script, when it comes to making a good movie.  You can shoot a feature-length movie on a home video camera with bad lighting, and it can still be good as long as the script is well-written and the characters are engaging.  In this case, the characters aren't engaging.  First off, it's harder to make an interesting film about wealthy Hollywood types.  It's better to make movies about ordinary people, with whom the audience can relate.  I just felt distant from these characters, and I found it hard to get wrapped up in their lives.  The director throws the audience a couple of curve balls, but they come off as more pretentious than nifty.  The film's strong points lie in its concepts, but the execution is poor.  I like the idea of an ensemble of A-list actors working for little money, and not having the luxury of trailers or craft service.  The ensemble cast of popular film and TV actors is definitely talented, but good acting can't save bad material.  One of the reasons why I was interested in seeing the movie is because I heard that all the dialogue is improvised by the actors.  Well, either I heard wrong or I was lied to, because in the DVD commentary (which is very good, by the way) Soderbergh explains that only the scenes between Nicky Katt and Enrico Colantoni are heavily improvised. If you want to see a better film that uses a similar style of filmmaking in a more successful way, watch Mike Figgis's Timecode.  That film is all improvised and shot on video in real time.  In that case, the experiment was a success.  I'm not a big fan of experimental films in general, because in most cases the directors are simply being self-indulgent and pass their work off as high art, simply because they're being different (or revolutionary, as the more pretentious directors phrase it).  Hell, making a whole movie that centers on an hour and 30 minutes of a fat slob watching TV is something different, but who would watch it?  There's nothing wrong with being artistic in the process of making a film, but you must make the material at least somewhat interesting to the audience or it's simply cinematic masturbation.  There are more self-indulgent films out there than Full Frontal, but this just wasn't my cup of tea.  If the script were good, I wouldn't even notice the poor visual quality, but since it wasn't, I was able to notice it and as a result it hampered the film. My score  4 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know that a lot of people dis-like this film but I have to admit I loved every moment of it.  This is a fantastic look at both Hollywood as an institution and a post-modern look at how a contemporary audience reads cinema.  His use of editing is similar to Godard (I'm thinking Breathless) and his camera work is fantastic.  Just because a camera moves constantly does not bad cinematography make.  In fact it could be argued the exact opposite. Just because it uses hand-held techniques and DV footage does not mean this film is any the less structured or designed ( just look at the scene where the Nazi officers are dancing in the background). I also found this film very funny.  Fare enough it wasn't obvious Jackass, someone falling over funny, but it was funny.  It makes the audience work for the jokes, they have to sometimes fill in what was said before they come into the scene (the dildo joke and the Jesus one are good examples of this) but that does not make it any less funny.Steven Soderbergh is a director who is always trying to do something with his films and cinema, and he generally succeeds. This film is no exception. Would audiences really rather a director steal work from previous directors and them pass them off as their own (Quentin Tarantino for example) or would they want to see someone try something new and fresh.  Maybe I am wrong and maybe audiences just don't care but if that's the case I would rather be the one who disagrees with them.  "},{"Title":"No Chance","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who rated this movie poorly gave it NO CHANCE. This movie was refreshing for  me, it made me think a little, rather then having everything handed to me on a platter.  So many movies are ruined by screenwriters assuming that their audience is filled with  idiots who can't figure out a movie for themselves. Well this movie gives the audience  the credit in figuring out this brilliant movie. If you want to watch this movie for a story,  I'm sorry but you'll be disappointed. This movie is more about emotion; tapping in to  someone's life where you couldn't before. You get inside these characters heads and  experience their true selves. The interesting way that the two stories happening in this  movie come togther is something thats strikes more real than anything. Associated  through one producer who is bent on ending his life....for his birthday party. The story behind Julia Roberts and Blair Underwoods is one that creates a movie within a movie. I  believe the acting in that movie was purposely bad, as to not confuse you about which  movie you are watching at that particular time. Everyone needs a release. Everyone in  this movie is looking for a release; whether it be marriage, sexual, racial or emotional, or  any other reason for that matter. It is the truth and this movie expresses that in a way  that no one else could. I would recommend this movie to someone who enjoys being  challenged with a movie, and who has time to watch it twice, everything comes together  the second time. "},{"Title":"Soderbergh should know better","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh is a brilliant director and he's one that is experimental by heart but when your already established in the industry these experimental films can be pretty risky. As much as I admire him he fails badly here. This is one of those movie in a movie plots and there are several characters that the film follows and all have some sort of connection whether they know it or not. Julia Roberts plays a reporter named Catherine and she's interviewing an actor named Nicholas but while on his flight he finds a love letter and thinks Catherine slipped it into his bag. But she denies it and he keeps pestering her about it all the way to the movie set. Here the film shifts and we see that Catherine and Nicholas are really actors named Francesca and Calvin and that the whole flight was part of a film. Meanwhile, a woman named Lee (Catherine Keener) is sick of her marriage and writes her husband Carl (David Hyde Pierce) a letter but he doesn't see it. Lee has set up her sister Linda (Mary McCormack) on a blind date with a producer named Gus (David Duchovny) but Linda works as a masseuse and has already given Gus a massage and agreed to an extra 500 dollars for Release. Linda needs the money because she is going to Arizona to see a man she met on the Internet. This man is Arty (Enrico Colantoni) and he's a director and writer of a play about Hitler and they have both lied to each other about they're age.  Steven Soderbergh shot this film with mostly handheld digital cameras and in several scenes its very difficult to watch the action that takes place on the screen. Soderbergh usually uses these types of cameras for his films and he's usually a master craftsman with the way his films look and Traffic is a beautifully shot film. But this is not and it's the type of film that young film directors make when they have no money. Soderbergh has the experience and knowledge to at least shoot his films in a more professional manner. If your a young fledgling director and so is your cinematographer than we can understand shots and scenes being blurry and out of focus. But I don't understand shooting a film like that if you don't have to. Script and story is mainly about how things appear one way on the surface but are different when you look closer. The actors that come away from this looking the best are McCormack, Keener and Pierce. They're ordeal is more understandable and the performances are pretty good. But this is film that just doesn't work and Soderbergh's attempt at style ends up being completely annoying. I give him credit for trying something different but he should have known better.  "},{"Title":"Original and Smart","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the most interesting film I've seen this year.  It is refreshing to see a filmmaker use his talent and influence in Hollywood to do something original.  It seems to me that the biggest complaint about Full Frontal is that the viewer has to make an effort to follow it.  To me this is the best reason to see it.  It is wonderful to finally see a movie where everything is not just spoon feed to the viewer. (As if they were a mindless vegetable). Steven Soderbergh's low budget approach to Coleman Hough's story comes across as more of an asset then a set back.  Soderbergh makes the best of these `limitations' and creates a style that is truly interesting and more importantly works for the film. The acting performances, including a very entertaining Nicky Katt, only benefit by Soderbergh's seemingly lose style.It is important to support original ideas in film, especially when they are this good.  If we the audience don't seek out smaller riskier films such as Full Frontal, then all we can look forward to is MIB 3.If you pick your movies by what is advertised on the side of a Burger King cup, then Full Frontal is not for you.  If however, you truly want to see something a bit different with some great performances, then I strongly recommend this film "},{"Title":"Huh?????","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Huh, that is what I thought about this movie 15 minutes in. It was so disorganized and pointless.  There is some sort of movie being filmed in this movie. That part made no sense. Why even show that. I guess the only thing that really happens is a wife cheats on her writer husband and a movie producer dies in his hotel room before his birthday party. And that is really what this movie is about, which is why it was so boring and awful.  It just isn't entertaining. And this is one of the few times, I didn't like Julia Roberts in a movie. I know she must have done this as a favor to the director, but her character was dumb and does nothing.FINAL VERDICT Dull. Waste of time. "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent nonsense","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I looked forward to watching this film - Duchovny, Hyde-Pierce and Brad Pitt are amongst my favourite actors.  I knew the film was going to be a little wierd, but then, I like weird.  And I knew it was an arty lo-budget affair. But none of this was to prepare me for the nonsense that followed.To make a good film you need a good plot, and good characters.  However the characters in this film have absolutely no character.  There's nothing in the film that keeps you watching, it's more like highlights from 'Big Brother'. Only duller.From one monotonous conversation to the next, 'Full Frontal' is nothing more than an exercise in self-indulgence.  A way for the director to say I got these big stars to perform for free.And to further my disappointment more, Julia Roberts is in this film. An actress I've always been irritated by.Don't bother watching this film, you'll never see those 2 hours again. "},{"Title":"One of the very worst films I have ever seen--bar none","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The kindest thing that one can say about this film is Thank God it's not any longer!Don't get me wrong. It was an ingenious idea--$2 mm home movie, highly improvised, fine director in Steven Soderberg, a very talented cast, complex movie within movie (within movie--as the last shot shows) structure--but the result is far less than the sum of its parts. It's a dirty patch on the bootsoles of all involved comparable only to Spielberg's AI--which was until I watched Full Frontal the worst film by a talented director I had ever seen.I won't bother reprising what passes for a plot. Suffice it to say that the film covers 24 hours, and feels longer. It's rather like being trapped watching the home movies of a group of very artsy, very neurotic, very self centered, and ultimately very boring people. If I were to single out one aspect that is particularly like fingernails on the blackboard, it is Catherine Keener as Lee. I must say that it's probably a pretty good piece of acting, since Lee is every man's nightmare--needy, self centered, manipulative, cruel (her office behavior would get her fired at any decent firm--of course the character is an HR person, and so there is a drop of reality there), and completely loathsome. She makes any Woody Allen neurotic look like the poster child for mental health. It's probably not an unrealistic portrait of a certain kind of woman. The question is, do you want to spend even 101 minutes with her?I decided to watch this based on favorable buzz I had heard. Learn from my error. Avoid at all costs. This is 101 minutes of mind-numbingly self centered Hollywood masturbation, without a single relieving touch of charm or humor. I hope that Mr. Soderberg has the grace to blush when this leaden turkey is mentioned.  "},{"Title":"Smart But Not Cinematically So","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I spent a lot of time on this, because I respect Soderbergh - not the sellout Hollywood dummy Soderbergh who works with Julia, but the film-loving Soderbergh that crafts wonderful little essays on film in film like `Sex, Lies` and `Limey.' This was to be a long-awaited reward, the fruit of all the compromising and such.And it is very ambitious in the self-reference, in the nestings and framing and direct references to film. If it were a book, I'd be tickled pink. The problem is that though the subject is cinematic, the method is not. In fact, there is no cinematic intelligence here at all except his honoring of the rules of spontaneity (which adds little it seems). This is so, so puzzling because `The Limey' was almost the perfect cinematic statement no story at all and even that copied not a remake but a film overlain on the previous one where you could SEE the layers.Yes, I understand the importance of actors. But they never are central to the vision that few people can deliver. I have to recommend this as worth watching only because of the literary complexity of the script. A film above and below, the film within about a play which resembles all three movies, all of this surrounded by a beehive of sexually-driven obsessives at multiple levels. But there is never a moment of shift like that when Streep trips in one level and falls in another in `Lieutenant's Woman.'But apart from the narrative structure, you can get better Christopher Guest by watching a Guest movie. And riskier Figgis by watching Figgis.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"I Hate to Say It","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You know, for years I have been of the belief that Steven Soderbergh was a great filmmaker, because of Sex, Lies and Videotape, always waiting for his next great film, but it never comes. After watching Schizopolis, Oceans 11, etc., etc., and now finally Full Frontal, I have to say I think he's a fraud. How could anyone with even an ounce of artistic vision cast Julia Roberts all the time? She blows. I think Soderbergh is to indie film what Ringo Starr was to rock and roll. He was in the right place at the right time, but definitely not worthy of the indie-film-god status that seems to be associated with him. I think sans James Spader in SL&VT, we would not know Soderbergh's name today. Sad, really. "},{"Title":"Empty","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If nothing else the film FULL FRONTAL is remarkably ill-named. Other than its sexual connotation, full frontal implies a head-on attack, a blunt and honest approach. That is not obvious here, rather, Steven Soderberg's film goes the longest way possible to get a conclusion that is obvious, if indeed the film has a conclusion in the first place.The film features a film within the film, and seems to feature flashbacks to real life moments that inspired the fictional moments in the film. But it becomes apparent that the stories are running on parallel lines and really don't relate. So? The message seems to be that real life is reel life is real life is reel life, and so on and so forth, blah, blah, blah. Nothing new there. So much fuss over such little inspiration.The film seems to be an experimental film of the sort that any director with Soderberg's success would have outgrown years ago. Calling in all of his big-star buddies to make guest appearances only magnifies the sheer haplessness of the mess. Had he used unknown actors, perhaps the film would have seemed sufficiently obscure to rate as an oddity. As is, the film seems to be little more than a bunch of friends having a party, getting properly intoxicated and then breaking out the home video camera. Like most such slapdash movies, I'm sure it is an embarrassment to all involved. "}{"Title":"Better than rated","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" More than any other name brand director Steven Soderbergh switches his style and filmic vocabulary to suit the story at hand that he wants to tell. In no film is this more evident than in his overlooked 2002 film Full Frontal. Filmed on a shoe string between his larger budgeted remakes of Ocean's 11 and Solaris, this film was almost universally panned by critics. No, it's not one of the greatest films ever made, but it's certainly not as bad a film as panned, nor a bad film at all.This film revolves around the lives of some low level movie types who are all invited to a party for a film producer who ends up dead in his motel room due to his kinky perversions. There's a married couple, Lee and Carl (Catherine Keener and David Hyde Pierce), on the rocks- he's a depressed screenwriter who's just been canned and she's an adulteress who's getting banged by the star of the film Carl wrote. That star, Calvin (Blair Underwood), is having problems both in his real and reel lives. Calvin with juggling his many lovers, including Lee, and his character Nicholas, from the film in the film called Rendezvous, who struggles through life as an actor, until he gets a break in a Brad Pitt cop film (which is a film in the film in the film) directed by real life director David Fincher. Soderbergh, himself, also appears X-ed out as himself. In the mere film in the film, Rendezvous, Nicholas is being interviewed and pursued by Catherine, who is played by Francesca in the actual film (Julia Roberts in real life). Francesca and Calvin end up at the party for Gus the producer, along with Lee and her sister Linda (Mary McCormack), the hotel masseuse who earlier in the day gave Gus (David Duchovny) a blowjob for $500. Having felt guilty over her prostitution- as well as stealing an extra $500 from Gus- it is Linda who discovers the body&#133;. Yet, one can only help but admire Soderbergh's willingness to adeptly go back and forth between the mainstream and his indie roots, especially since his critical and financial dufecta of Erin Brockovich and Traffic has allowed him to abandon the small film if he wanted. While there is truth to criticisms that Soderbergh has made too many remakes in recent years (and I, personally prefer the smaller, personal feel of The Limey and Full Frontal) I doubt that it's due to laze, merely a restiveness and desire to see how he can veer from already tried conventions. The DVD's features are worth checking out, even if the film is not what most viewers expect. Soderbergh is, along with Francis Ford Coppola, one of the few film directors adept at discussing both film and art in general, as well the making of the film under commentary. His explication of scenes, along with the screenwriter, is top notch, as is a feature that has the characters in the film being interviewed by Soderbergh 'in character'. I guess it's a testament to the vapidity and impatience of the American public that such a gem of a little film was lost in the harsh glare of criticism, but my gut tells me that this is a film like Orson Welles' The Stranger, Alfred Hitchcock's The Lodger, or Coppola's The Conversation, that will only grow in stature in his canon through the years. Given its premature burial, in fact, that's really the only thing it can do. "},{"Title":"This is an awful awful movie","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am not sure what the director was thinking.... Was was his objective and I even thought this was pieces of a movie that never made it to the theater. I just bought the DVD for 10 cents, so, I am not worried about my money, but I am upset for the time that I took to choose and then to watch it. I should have known better from the start that the movie is going nowhere! I suggest everyone who reads this never, never try watching this movie. I have to agree with some of the critics..... This is the worst movie..... I mean the worst movie I have ever watched. What a waste of cast.... So many good people in this movie, and what were they thinking.... As the movie mentions.... Is it just about money.... But this is even a low budget movie.... So I don't get it... "},{"Title":"Great experimental film","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderbergh is a director who made a lot of successful box office movies like Ocean's eleven,Erin Brockovich or Ocean's twelve.But,sometimes,Soderbergh makes experimental films like Bubble or Full frontal(the movie I'll talk about on this commentary)which are not successful in the box office and they are movies that only some persons know them.Full frontal is a great experiment.The actors are perfectly chosen.Mary McCormack and the great Catherine Keener have the best performances.The movie is so well directed that an actress like Julia Roberts has a good performance.Full frontal is a great experiment that goes beyond the common and the emotions are real. "},{"Title":"Like a lava lamp instead of a staid coffeetable ornament","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have been reading the comments to Full Frontal in the hopes that someone could explain the plot, since I didn't understand the action. At all. And yet, I really enjoyed the movie! I think there really isn't a typical story - it's not a problem of having to unravel a circuitous, circular, fragmented, or some other off-beat storytelling style in order to understand the plot. I don't think there is one. So, I suppose, one could say it's a pointless movie.Except.Each scene was really wonderful - I was pulled into each conversation (or wacky interaction, in the case of Catherine Keener's character) so thoroughly that I felt I understood each character as if they were a colleague or neighbor. Even when it became apparent I had no idea what had just happened - with the movie-in a movie-in a movie thing - I felt like I'd just hung out with these folks and felt their anxiety, their worry, their sadness, their pompousness, their shame, their need....their humanity. Even David Hyde Pierce on the phone made me feel that way!So, perhaps one should view this film as a series of vignettes (or snippets), rather than as a movie with a beginning, middle and end. I would recommend this movie for people who don't know a thing about digital vs video vs film, hand held or dolly or whatever cameras, or anything technical about movie-making (like me), but who like really great acting and strangely attracting things. Full Frontal is kinda like a lava lamp, and all other movies are Pier One decorations... "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The explanation for this and Solaris maybe that the director was contractually obliged to make those 2 before leaving. Brad Pitt sole appearance is as he walks down a street in one scene and that is all he does. Almost the whole audience in the cinema screen I was in walked out. The same happened in the George Clooney film Solaris and Dancing at the Blue Iguana in which the cast seem to be trying to improvise lines whilst under the influence of semi sedation. Is a hodge podge which I have almost successfully blocked from my mind. Even if you are on a desert island and a passing native offers you the chance to watch this film in his solar power raft and you haven't watched films for 10 years. Do not watch this. It will make the effort of sustaining your life hunting and fishing seem worthless. "},{"Title":"A Search for the Reality .... And A Plot","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I heard Full Frontal was great. However, I also heard horrible accounts. The only solution left was to view it myself.I wasn't quite sure what to expect and the film leaves you feeling ... well, nothing in particular. Full Frontal's effect (if there is a desired effect) was lost upon me.However, the film can be viewed as an interesting search for truth or the reality of Hollywood. The lines between the cosmetic and authenticity, as in real life, are blurred. Even when you (as a moviegoer and fan) think you know a character, actor, person, screenwriter Coleman Hough reveals the rose-colored lens. Through the intertextual narrative of the film, one can view the absurdity of our celebrity-obsessed culture. Some may interpret the film's stylistic features as condescending or pretentious - which is a valid argument. However, I think the intended effect was to be a self-reflective caricature. Some of the film's features such as the name game and the roles played by Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt reflect the self-parody of the film. Furthermore, the ending, along with the Underwood/Roberts subplot, reveal the nature of Hough's parody. It just seems to have gotten lost in its direction.Nicky Katt and Catherine Keener give great performances as always. David Hyde Pierce is desperately trying to stop audiences from exclaiming, Hey, that's the guy from Frasier but to no avail. Pierce's delivery and mannerisms are too reminiscent of Niles for the audience to consider him as Carl. And Mary McCormack does a great supporting role, unfortunately, the bare bones story leaves the audience awaiting something that is not coming.Overall, this is a film worth viewing. Maybe twice...if you can stomach its lack of direction. "},{"Title":"Hollywood inside joke of the month club","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Don't watch this movie for Brad Pitt, he's only in there for a minute.There really isn't a plot and the character roles change. This film is more about looking at the way a movie is made and having fun while doing it.It's too bad it's not really fun for the rest of us. This movie will ruin your Friday if you bring it home from Blockbuster!!!Here's a wise suggestion if you want to see any of these actors at their best, watch what they're famous for. You'll be better off watching reruns of Fraiser, Fightclub, X-files, etc.Did you know comments require 10 lines of text? Neither did I. That's why this line is here. And those lines up there, hold real information. "},{"Title":"An interesting film from a talented director","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderberg has created a very funny and thoughtful piece of work here. The plot involves six main characters. They are all connected by a film producer whose birthday party they are all invited to. This film is a must see for anyone interested in working within the film industry, or anyone interested in the general nature of film as a medium. Do not see this film if you are only watching it because of the stars that are in it. Not to say that their performances aren't very good, but they are in general a departure from the norm for most of these actors. I haven't as yet seen anything by Soderberg that I dislike, and this film, like many of his others will I am sure become a cult classic. "},{"Title":"A HUGE Waste of 2 Hours","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After watching this for over an hour, and then realizing that this movie was going nowhere, I did the smart thing and pushed stop. A movie within a movie etc., that fails miserably to establish any meaningful plot - just a bunch of first-rate actors going in circles. One of the worst movies I have ever seen. Even a few minutes with Brad Pitt didn't help at all. What was Steven Soderbergh thinking? Why this movie was made at all is a mystery to me. I have seen a lot of BAD movies, and this one made my all-time Worst 10 list. Don't even bother, even if it's free. My copy came from the library, so at least I can say it didn't cost me any money, just hours from my life that would have been better spent cleaning the house, shining my shoes, taking a nap - anything would have been a better use of my time. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Full Frontal","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 2 words It SUCKS! OK, so sue me, perhaps i don't know how to appreciate this film, so if you do, write a comment will ya? This movie starts off as a movie within a movie, called Rendezvous. For the next 1/2 hour, you're left wondering what the heck is this movie all about.Simple. Basically just telling you stories behind those characters leading up to their attending a director's (Gus, played by Duchonvy, less than 10 mins screen time mind you) birthday party.Characters include a black actor (Blair Underwood), a white actress (Julia Roberts), a HR vice president of some company, her sister who's going to meet some guy whom she knew from IRC, that guy from the IRC who didn't really tell her frankly who he was (some art director rather than a painter), a stage actor, and many others you probably won't give a hoot about.However, the only saving grace was David Fincher and Brad Pitt playing themselves. Watch out for Fincher's spoof of his own directing style (the endless reshoots of even simple scenes involving only 1 spoken line).Although the movie is draggy, stay on during the end credits where you get to see some contrived behind the scenes shots, as well as a Brad Pitt Easter Egg scene right at the end.That is if you still have the patience to torture yourself through it all. A lot of people in my screening left halfway through the show, and those who forced themselves to sit through the ending because they paid $8.50 darted out of the theatre once the credits start rolling.Don't watch, unless you really think you can pretend to understand the show. "}{"Title":"touching film that thinks it's a play","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  well just goes to show, i thought this was a fantastic film, i was totally hooked from about 10 seconds in. It's atmospheric, beautifully lit, brilliantly acted, thoughtful and genuinely touching. Actually to me it was more like a play than a film, so bear that in mind. Didn't care much for the Julia Roberts/Blair Underwood storyline, preferred the other pieces. NOT a comedy though, so rather odd that it was presented as such. Maybe that's what put people off. I think where this film is concerned you have to take it slow, be in the right mood . I was, and it hit the spot.  "},{"Title":"Full frontal please cover-up your short comings...","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really gave this movie a chance. I really did. Honestly. I tried. Lord knows I tried. But it was bad. Very bad. First of all, I am sooooo tired of seeing meaningless camera movement just for the sake of moving a camera. Can we all just agree that it's okay, really, it's okay to hold a camera steady. It's not old fashioned. It's simple. It's good.Let's see what else.....Oh yea, it's also okay to stick to one storyline in a movie. I promise I won't get bored by one storyline. Really I won't. Just do your best as a screenwriter on one storyline and I'll do my best to pay attention to one story. I really and truly don't need three or four or more story lines to keep my interest. In fact, now I know this is going to sound very strange, but I actually prefer just to experience one story in a movie.And while we're at it, the story within a story within a story, where actors reveal themselves to be only playing a part in another story and this is actually the real story, is being played a lot lately. I mean a lot. It's not cute or intellectual. Actually, all this type of story telling really is, is short attention spans masquerading as plot twists. It's annoying. It only serves to make the audience distrust the current storyline because it probably will only wind up being a setup for another storyline. Hmm let's see, what else. Ah yes, the dreaded F word. Personally, while I have been known to say the dreaded F word, it's not actually a word I feel the need to use on a daily basis. Call it attention to detail. Call it a conscious choice, call it, dare I say, good taste or perhaps simply a matter of self control. Call it what you will, I think the brave choice for film makers today making adult drama would be to actually try to express a strong emotion without the use of profanity.Now we must address sex. All roads lead there after all. Or do they? Is sex what mainstream movie directors really want to show in their films? Or is it relationships? Again, I guess I'm just an old fashioned, hypocritical slob but if I want to see sex in a film, I'll just rent an adult film. Otherwise, I'd just as soon as not see sex scenes in a movie. A kiss, a clinch, a fade to black.. It works for me, what can I say? I just somehow feel that it doesn't really take all that much talent to take your clothes off and pretend to have sex. All these kind of scenes do is make my mind turn to sex and gee wizz, wouldn't you think your average director would want the audience to concentrate on the movie instead of their inflamed loins? Whenver I see an actor strip I think to myself would Katharine Hepburn & Spencer Tracy have felt the need to disrobe to play a part? Anyway, I wound up watching most of Full Frontal but just couldn't make it to the end. I tried though, I really did..... "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a mess.  After I finished watching I asked myself, Is it just me?  Am I not in the mood for this film?  But then I accepted the fact that the problem was not me - I didn't come into this with any preconceived notions.  The characters were dull.  The plot was tedious.  The styling was stale.  It reminded me of a high school drama class.  Thanks, but no thanks.  "},{"Title":"I'm dissapointed in Soderbergh","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't see this! Baffling, chaotic, I deplore, that those grateful actors/actresses wasted their ability for this something. I love, understand and set a high value on the independent movies, but this one is awful. I'm really sorry, 'cause Soderbergh is a brilliant director, but it's awful. "},{"Title":"A failed experiment in filmmaking.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I normally champion films that offer something different, but this one tried my patience.  It doesn't even deliver on the title!  It's a jigsaw puzzle of scenes that don't quite fit together no matter how you try to rearrange them in your mind.  The characters are almost ALL unlikable and the filming style is self indulgent on the part of Soderbergh.  Right after winning his Traffic Oscar, this is the ONLY time he could have gotten away with this.  I'd like to say the actors acquit themselves nicely, but they don't.  Improvisation is not a strength for most of them.  The person I watched this with (as a video rental) was angry at me for bringing it home, seriously. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  1. Plot/Story None2. Visual Half good, half unwatchable3. Sound Annoying4. Cast Great, but useless5. Entertainment value Zero6. Overall score Minus 10Yes, I'd give this film -10 if only IMDb would allow a negative score. Totally crap and unwatchable (literally!). If the film wasn't directed by Soderberg or didn't feature household names for its cast, I highly doubt anyone will care, let alone give it a good review (like some reviewers who pretend they understand this film). "},{"Title":"For this I rented the DVD??","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I read just a little about this movie on the DVD jacket. That was full of baloney. Sonderberg?  Supposedly, a genius as a director. Well, he lost my vote only a few minutes in, but with the star-power of the lineup and the promise of Digital Dolby Surround, I decided to let it run a little. Boy am I glad I waited, because I was treated to a nap in my big leather chair...a luxury not usually afforded me. By the way, this thing needed Dobly sound like I need the flu. ALL THEY DO IS TALK!This thing is SO boring, I don't think even the participants liked it. He has a lot of connections apparently, so he was able to attract some names for this farce. There are some people in this mess that I KNOW are embarrassed now that it's out for home viewing. It's no wonder at all that it didn't do well with it's run in the theaters.Please look up some of my other reviews, so you know you are not reading the ramblings of an ignorant viewer who just happened not to like a specific film. I am simply trying to save you some of your precious time by touting you off this thing...unless you too, need a nap.This guy directed Traffic. Go figure. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven is a wonderful director... oceans11, traffic, etc......but this movie reminded me of the kind of films me and my friends in high school would make.   There  are some funny and interesting parts but i think you (the viewers) would have more fun watching your neighbors vacation home videos.  They are one in the same. Good luck next time. "},{"Title":"The worst film of the year","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK. First I was excited about this film, because it has almost everything what a good movie needs. Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, plot, and everything. But it turn out, that every single potential was left to use. It was very very boring movie without any good scene. My opinion The worst film of the year, and believe me, I have seen a lot more movies than average. "},{"Title":"101 Minutes of Your Life That You'll Never Get Back","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recommend that you wear a watch while you view this film as you will be looking at it constantly as you feel your very own will to live slowly ebb away from you...I suspect that the screenwriter Coleman Hough is really Mr. Steven Soderbergh and given the remarkable lack of quality involved here, it's no wonder he used a pseudonym.  If the actors actually had anything to play you could credit the performances though, not surprisingly, Catherine Keener makes a meal of it and David Hyde Pierce shows a lot of post-Frasier promise.  The real surprise is the cruelty that Soderbergh inflicts on a number of lesser, aspirational though clearly untalented characters.  One would've thought that the man who once accepted his Oscar by dedicating it to all the people who do something creative on a daily basis, no matter how large or small would be beyond such indulgent pettiness.  This effort certainly serves as a leveler.I wish I hadn't seen Terence Stamp's cameo, reprising his character from The Limey, as both the film and the performance should be held in much higher regard than it is here.  Certainly Roberts' turn in Erin Brockovich would seem a much riper target if Soderbergh truly wished to demonstrate a genuine sense of humour.This type of cinema that comments on itself and the medium in an effort to say something about our broader perceptions of life requires far more precision and insight than what Soderbergh and his friends are willing to contribute here.  We've no reason to doubt their capability to do so as most have delivered on previous occasions but their achievements here are largely disingenuous--and probably not as Soderbergh intended.  If Soderbergh is trying to say that the people we see on screen are merely representations of life and, in fact, are quite different from how they would be in real life then I would say this only belies their inherent narcissism since I only go to the cinema to see representations of life, not to experience real life.  It is difficult to escape the shallowness, condescension and presumed superiority of this type of endeavour.What this film really says is that most directors are only as good as the material they direct and in Full Frontal, Soderbergh is only capable of turning a sow's ear...into a sow's ass.  The only thing worse than Full Frontal would be Full Frontal--The Extended Director's Cut.  Avoid this inconsequential dud and go play outside for a few hours instead. "}{"Title":"Too insider-y","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The cast is impressive and the acting is superb, but this is a relentlessly self-indulgent exercise that is likely to resonate to only those who understand the inner workings of the industry (and call it that). Regular people will be drawn by the big names but may be disappointed in this multi-layered exercise in erudition -- or an attempt at such. There's a lot of power struggling in this -- classes within Hollywood from masseuse to producer, showy homes, shabby apartments and people who don't like who they're married to, dating, related to and working with and for.The movie within a movie within a movie idea isn't as complicated as it seems and the initial movie, Rendevous, which frames the film, is fairly bland and uninteresting. Moreover, the issue is with the characters, most of whom aren't likeable. David Hyde Pierce's wimpy Carl is really the only truly sympathetic character in the film and even he can be irritating. "},{"Title":"Soderberg goes back to his roots","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Full Frontal, Soderberg made a character-driven movie with the look and feel of an independent piece (for example, he uses hand-held video with poor resolution for some of his scenes). It reminded me of his first hit independent movie Sex, lies and videotapes, but definitely stranger and less focused (literally).Full Frontal is excessively layered and can be quite confusing at times. However, this dreamy puzzle is also what gives it a refreshing intrigue and bizarre interplay. This movie received mostly bad press when it was widely released, but I believe that most negative criticism stemmed from a triggered reflex detachment from the audience to this vague, slow-progressing thing that they were seeing in front of them. Maybe, popular audiences who had seen Traffic, Ocean Eleven and Out of Sight, were expecting something more typically Hollywood, but for me this is the Soderberg that I like and who briefly re-emerged and made me feel and think.The daring project, exhibited a notably skilled hand at directing from Soderberg who showed a good understanding of the material and handled well the task of showing close approximation to reality and yet always reminding the spectator in some way that this was all unreal. The script was ambitious, not always cohesive (which is not necessarily bad), quirky and sometimes outright over-the-top, but ultimately satisfying. It explored a decent lot of themes and points of reflection and succeeded in keeping the attentive audience's eyes and ears open, descending deeper and deeper into that crazy world which, frighteningly enough, is very close to our own.Most surprisingly, Full Frontal was actually very funny. I often laughed myself silly at the absurdity of the situations presented (and at the way the were being presented- Nicky Katt as Hitler was especially funny). What made the humour all the more effective to me was that the characters seemed to regard relatively awkward things as perfectly normal. This added contrast and supposed seriousness worked to increase the ludicrous aspect of these scenes.If you like thoughtful different independent movies, I definitely recommend this one to you. Do not necessarily believe the bad word-of-mouth this movie received. There is plenty in there to be explored and savoured. "},{"Title":"Burn the negative! Or at least put it away in a disused broom closet.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the first time I've wanted a film to be destroyed. Not so much because it's bad, but because there's no earthly reason to go to the trouble of preserving it, any more than there is reason to go to the trouble of preserving Steven Soderbergh's toenail clippings. The master negative is taking up space that would be better spent on, I don't know, a pot plant, or some old newspapers.Not that there really IS a master negative. The bulk of the movie was shot on digital video ... made by Soderbergh to resemble 16mm, although 16mm is never, when it's shot by professionals and blown up to 35mm, ever so ugly or so badly exposed as this. On what grounds are we being asked to put up with this stuff? Soderbergh apologists trumpet the fact that the film was shot in eighteen days for just $2 million, but what does this prove? That it's possible to turn a profit by doing a slapdash job with inferior materials? Gee, THAT'S news.Some of the movie is reasonably, if not remarkably, shot in 35mm. It turns out to be (sigh) the film-within-a-film. It comes as a crushing disappointment to discover that THIS film is bad, too; in fact, ever bit as soul-numbingly boring and as mud-ordinary as everything else that passes in front of Soderbergh's randomly moving camera. Perhaps this is because the characters in the nested films are themselves film-makers. They're probably making a film about the making of a film themselves. That film is probably just as bad as the one they're in. It makes my head hurt; not because it's hard to keep track of the different levels, but because it's nothing but stale clichés ALL THE WAY DOWN.The annoying thing is that Soderbergh could have done anything at all and gotten away with it. The only way it's possible to make a film that has Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt in it, that costs no more than $2 million, and NOT to get a return on the investment, is to hire bouncers and instruct them not to let anyone near the ticket booths. Soderbergh was in the enviable position George Lucas was in on the eve of The Phantom Menace. As a friend said to me shortly after that film's release So long as it started with the 'Star Wars' logo, the rest of the film could have consisted of a big Chicken McNugget slowly rotating in space for two hours, and it would still have been a hit. Yet Soderbergh shows not the slightest bit of imagination at all. The 35mm footage is just your standard bad Hollywood turkey, even less memorable than I Love Trouble (remember that? Of curse you don't); the digital video stuff consists of actors going through the lengthy rigmarole, no doubt fascinating to them, of getting into characters that may one day appear in a real film - although I hope they won't, for the characters aren't interesting, either.It takes blindness to consider Full Frontal a genuine experiment and doublethink to consider it anything other than complete rubbish. I'm not making this claim lightly. By no other means can the residents of Oceania in Nineteen Eighty-Four deny the reality that they live in a miserable world full of shoddy goods, and by no other means can someone watch this manifestly poor film and come to believe that it's good. "},{"Title":"Not Terrible","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While Coleman Hough's screenplay may be too cutesy and tricky for its own good, Steven Soderbergh's arty Dogma-95-style experiment finds its pleasures in the freewheeling, improvised ensemble acting he encourages to shape what would initially appear to be a formless mess about a day in the interconnected lives of people both within and on the fringes of the L.A. film community. The performances themselves range from the mildly interesting (Blain Underwood and Julia Roberts) to the decent (David Hyde Pierce and Catherine Keener) to the very good (Mary McCormack and Nikky Katt, very funny as a modern-day Hitler in the stage play `The Sound And The Fuhrer') but everyone gets credit for taking part with a relaxed, happy-to-be-there manner. After a couple of minor crowd-pleasers in `Traffic' and `Ocean's Eleven' that found him to be working perhaps a bit too familiarly within the studio system (`Erin Brockovich' and `The Limey' displayed the ability to actually get something personal done inside that system), Soderbergh seems intent on going to a non-conformist extreme using studio money (the film is a Miramax release with Jeff Garlin of `Curb Your Enthusiasm' playing `Harvey, Probably', a direct reference to Miramax head honcho Harvey Weinstein) and while he doesn't quite get there--it's a mannered and self-conscious piece, a bit afraid of the freedom provided it--there's enough serious intent to make it a worthwhile effort.     "},{"Title":"Too smart for me to enjoy it","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that makes the day of critics and cinema historians. Director Soderbergh has a mixed record of social drama, action movies and art films. 'Full Frontal' is supposed to belong to the latest category. It is a movie in movie, filmed on digital camera and video, acted (superbly) in a stand-up, improvisational mode. However, it takes it too long to take off, it is too pretentious to be true and sincere, and some of the cinema tricks are too 'heavy' to be enjoyed. Probably the life in Hollywood may be fascinating, especially for Hollywood residents, but how much variations can the viewer take on the same theme? Yes, the hand of a first class director can be surely felt, but the film says nothing important, and I was left with a feeling of a miss. 7/10 on my personal scale, for the good acting and filming - still too much talent wasted, after all.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not wholly successful","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh's FULL FRONTAL is an interesting film, with moments of brillance, humor and insight. It also has absolutely terrible moments. It's not altogether successful, but I admire Soderbergh for taking so many risks. I was pleasantly surprised by David Hyde Pierce. He is great in this film and delivers the best single performance in the film. Mary McCormack is also wonderful and Nicky Katt is hilarious as a devoted actor playing Hitler (which provides the films funniest scenes). The scenes that didn't work were all the Blair Underwood/Julia Roberts stuff. They are uninspired performances and drag on far too long. They're garbage. Another problem is Soderbergh's choice to shoot on digital video. Unless you know what you're doing on video (like Harmony Korine or Lars von Trier), it's not a format that should be used. Parts of FULL FRONTAL are so dark and blurry you can't tell what's happening. Maybe this was Soderbergh's intention, but it's distracting. I like movies that take risks, even if all the risks don't pay off. FULL FRONTAL is a movie like that. It has inspired moments, but put together they don't all add up. This is closer to SCHIZOPOLIS than any other Soderbergh film. He takes risks that will infuriate many viewers, but I admired it. "},{"Title":"Very bad movie","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Soderbergh was on one heck of a roll, but he's obviously lost his mind,and is now trying to sabatogue his career. This movie fails on so manylevels. The content It's very pretenious and full of itself. Painfully unfunny. And has no point to it.The filmmaking I've seen video to film movies before, and I have to saythat this is the worst looking film I've ever seen. It sets the digitalvideo revolution back a couple years. It's hard to beleive that anAcademy Award winning director could be responsible for this.Editing It was edited on an amateur editing system, and it shows.Soderbergh should be ashamed of himself for wasting everyone's t "},{"Title":"amateur night in Hollywood","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `Full Frontal,' Steven Soderbergh's attempt to re-connect with his low-budget roots, is little more than a collection of pretentious, self-indulgent ramblings about the movie industry, dysfunctional relationships and, if all else fails I guess, life in general.Reportedly made for around 2 million dollars, the film was shot mainly using a digital camera with only the `film-within-a-film' segments employing conventional film stock.  The result is that 10% of the movie looks gorgeous while fully 90% of it is totally unwatchable.  You haven't seen grain until you've experienced this picture blown up to wide screen proportions.  The gritty, `unpolished' look, long popular with independent filmmakers, is one thing, but this is ridiculous.  To say that the movie hits new heights (or lows) in visual ugliness would be to understate the reality of the experience.  So what can one say about `Full Frontal' beyond the obvious shortcomings of the film's unconventional look?  Well, one could note that the movie does feature three interesting characters Lee (beautifully played, as always, by Catherine Keener), a neurotic executive battling the forces of an unhappy marriage, a fear of aging and a repressed childhood trauma, who serves as the emotional touchstone for an understandably bewildered audience; Lee's husband Carl (David Hyde Pierce), who suffers from severe feelings of male inadequacy; and Linda (Mary McCormack), who feels that her one last chance of finding lasting true love resides in a man she has chatted with over the internet and whom she plans to meet up with for a weekend of unbridled passion in a Holiday Inn in Tucson.  The film is - deliberately, I guess - rather hard to follow at the beginning, but most of the characters do eventually sort themselves out after awhile. Unfortunately, apart from that previously mentioned trio, most of the rest of the characters emerge as dull, two-dimensional figures, lacking both depth and interest.The film's major star power is provided by Julia Roberts as an actress playing the part of a reporter in the film we are afforded glimpses of from time to time, and Brad Pitt, who makes what turns out to be little more than a cameo appearance playing (who else?) Brad Pitt  (both were alumni of Soderbergh's previous and quite different film `Ocean's Eleven,' by the way).`Full Frontal' is not a terrible film by any stretch (although the look of the film really is terrible), and it does provide some funny, poignant and sharp insights into the movie biz and human nature from time to time.  One wonders, though, who would want to see the movie that we witness being made here (especially with the ugly wig the director has Roberts donning for the occasion).  And, in case anyone is wondering about the film's title, yes there is a shot of full frontal nudity.  David Duchovny &#150; or a stand-in for him &#150; gets to do the honors.  Of course, given the abysmal quality of the picture, who can really tell WHAT we're seeing?I generally like the idea that a director who has experienced as much success at the box office as Soderbergh has &#150; and who could clearly write his own ticket in Hollywood and make a lot more money doing it &#150; has chosen instead to buck the system and to produce a film that is intimate in scope and narrower in scale than the average blockbuster. &#150; and I would much rather applaud his bravery than condemn his foolishness.  What jaded pro wouldn't want to regain, at least for the moment, the energy and drive that comes with being a neophyte amateur?  I just think that, in this case, the director has slipped over the edge into the abyss of self-consciousness, taking his talented cast down right along with him.    "},{"Title":"Some Power please deliver us from the pretentious, self-conscious Hollywood illusion that we really yearn anymore for a look inside Hollywood.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My two children working in Hollywood could verify that Steven Soderbergh's `Full Frontal' captures some of the neurotic self-indulgence and egocentrism of that powerful colony. But then David Lynch did a much more challenging analysis of Hollywood actors and the relationship to their roles in `Mulholland Drive,' and Tim Robbins just plain had more fun skewering the motion-picture process in `The Player.'In `Full Frontal' stars like Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt are playing other roles in movies within the movie within the movie, not a new idea and not smoothly done. Everyone seems to be making a circuitous path to the David Duchovny Hollywood-producer's 40th birthday party.   Making the trip rough are cliched techniques like grainy film, underexposure, out-of-focus, hand-held jitters to give the effect of home movies or cinema verite as it used to be called.All this has been done from Woody-Allen Manhattan realism to `Blair- Witch' nauseating jolts.  All right already-we get the point about reality and fiction, but don't make us sit through half the film wishing for the other steady, clear half.  Somehow Director Steven Soderbergh's `Traffic' handled the camera vagaries much better and told a much more powerful story.Soderbergh says his movie is about our `efforts to connect' and `issues of an audience and its attempts to connect with a movie, and where aesthetics come into play in trying to forge that connection.' His objective camera in `Sex, Lies, and Videotape' showed more about connections than all the arty effects of this film. It is fun, however, to see Julia Roberts and Blair Underwood play roles and then play the actors playing the roles. Not a revelation, but for a movie voyeur like me always titillation.This director makes the sometimes-inscrutable bard seem the essence of clarity, for instance from `A Comedy of Errors' `And here we wander in illusions. Some blessed power deliver us from hence.'Some Power please deliver us from the pretentious, self-conscious Hollywood illusion that we really yearn anymore for a look inside Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"don't watch it if time is dear to you and you expect something from this director","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am sorry to say but this movie is complete crap. It seems to me that the director has gotten so stuck up on the fact that he received two best director nominations during the same Oscar-night and everything that followed afterward that he just got tired and revealed his true face - meaning - no talent whatsoever. this piece of a movie is sad. i am surprised to see that this kind of clicheé-filled school-play amateur movie was ever financed to get made. directors with such a record should never ever get tired to rest on their cinematographic tricks - they should indeed evolve. and if u've seen this movie, u've seen ocean's twelve. in a way. sad.1/10 "}{"Title":"A Sure Winner as one of the Top Ten Worst Films of All Time.....","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How I was able to sit through this total tripe is beyond me. It literally looks like the picture is made up as it goes along. Bad script and atrocious camera work as if it was filmed by an amateur. The story is nonsensical. Just because there are a number of so-called celebrities winging it hopefully that will not convince any rational person that this film is other than appallingly awful and ridiculously inane. I cannot tell you what this film is about as even those in it seem to have no idea, and give the impression they care even less.Of course what comes across to me at least is that the film is intended to satisfy the inflated ego and pretentiousness of those involved in making it.    "},{"Title":"Interesting, but kind of pointless","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if I could watch this movie that many times, but this might be one of those films that gets better the more times you watch it.  This film is very dialogue and narrative heavy.  The way it was filmed made me feel like I was watching some low-budget IFC flick, but I think it was done that way on purpose.  The majority of the characters seem to lack any true direction in their lives and as a result things for them are just moving along monotonously.The characters are somewhat realistic.  The story is decent.  The acting isn't bad, but I don't think it was anything award worthy.  And if the movie was looking to send a message, I missed it.  In general, if you want a film where you can sit there an over analyze either how it was filmed or the story that was created, this probably wouldn't be a bad choice.  Finally, if you miss this one, I can't really say you're missing anything, but if you like the actors in this film, then go watch it.  The choice is yours. "},{"Title":"Sex, lies and grainy film........","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sorry Steve, you should have given the idea of your film to someone else and it would have been done better. What is the purpose of making a hip film that no one gets? Obviously, with your name, you were able to sell this to Harvey Weinstein in the Polo Lounge, or maybe the Tribeca Grand and good old Harvey gave you the go ahead to make this thing.You should have seen how little by little the theatre where I saw it emptied itself to the point there were only about three people left at the end.I'm sorry, but this was such a waste. I wish I had something positive to tell you, but better luck next time. You are a good director and you need to do something better, much worthy of your talents. "},{"Title":"Don't see this piece of garbage.","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just don't understand how people can do such a bad movie. There is nothing good at all in this movie. The stories are so silly that it's not even funny. And the characters are so colourless that it hurts to see them. Big names can't save it. I can't understand why Julia, Brad and David can do this to their careers. Do they know what they are doing. However isn't Brad and David in it that much. They are on the cover but not in the movie. They are in one scene or something like that. Julia Roberts is just a big joke. Doesn't she have a brain. I mean, didn't she read the script or what? I'm never going to see this awful movie again. Don't see it. It's a waste of time. Believe me!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"A royal and celebrity supported dud","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Steven Soderbergh, who has films like the epic Traffic, the fun Ocean's Eleven and cooly out there Out of Sight, goes back to his roots of Sex, Lies and Videotape which is awfully tricky, and unfortunately doesn't succeed. Soderbergh's style here is getting a story of a movie within a movie possibly within another universe somewhere, all squeezed into the Hollywood underbelly of LA.  One story tells of Julia Roberts as a reporter interviewing Blair Underwood, and it works fairly until at one point it almost turns to a behind the scenes thing where we can spot Soderbergh himself (humorously but un-needingly) with a censored black box over his face, and then showing and maybe not showing Underwood and Roberts as themselves.  Another story has David Hyde Pierce as a man in his early fourties who gets fired after a beer comparison, and then even another story focuses on a small theater group trying to put on a play about Hitler with Nicky Katt giving the best performance of the entire time length as an actor who compares other famous directors works to his.  And I just scraped the surface of what else pops up here.In other words, despite a couple of funny jabs, a laugh out loud respect to Brad Pitt and some trying to be decent in acting, the film doesn't work cause the switching between real film and digital grain aspect will allude many of the filmgoers and confuse them to the point where they dont know when the movie lost it's main core and becomes a movie about nothing- like a behind the scenes DVD disc made into a movie.  Soderbergh needs to get back to what he does best, if only so Julia Roberts can do something else as well.  C "},{"Title":"Worst piece of film I've ever seen","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It might be because I was very tired yesterday, or because the movie pretty simply sucked... How can anyone call this a comedy? I didn't laugh once ( The only fun thing is when you in the end think back on the movie and realizes how extremely weird and boring and dull it's been, that actually gave me a little smile, how can anyone do this to me? And then have a picture of Brad Pitt on the cover, I thought, then it must be some good in the film, because i usually like him, but hey, he is in the movie for like 30 seconds, in a scene where he has 2-3 lines or something, it's weird... Well, after all I didn't understand the plot, the only positive I found is the way it was filmed, it's pretty neat, but it's the same style as in Ocenas 11, so see that movie instead, even if you have seen it (Oceans 11) 1000 times it will be more amusing... "},{"Title":"What's happened to Soderbergh?","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Steven Soderbergh's newest movie has him directing Francesca (Julia Roberts) and Calvin (Blair Underwood) in a movie which is shown in crisp, clear film and then shows their real lives in VERY grainy video footage using a constantly jerky hand-held camera going in and out of focus. It also shows other characters and how their lives intersect with Francesca and Calvin.There's absolutely nothing new or inventive here, but the attitude seems to be that Soderbergh is breaking new ground. The characters have all been done to death as have the stories with totally predictable resolutions. Also, I realize Soderbergh has a fondness for grainy video images (just look at Traffic), but it's hell to watch. It's exceptionally annoying and I thought of walking out more than once. Also all the characters are unlikable. I couldn't find any reason to care about them or their situations.What kept me watching was the acting. Everybody is good, but Blair Underwood was exceptional. Very talented, very handsome--a total pleasure to watch. And where's the full frontal we're promised in the title?But, all in all, this movie was too satisfied with and a real ordeal to watch. It's real sad to see a director like Soderbergh doing crap like this. Avoid. "},{"Title":"If it looks like a turkey...","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Full Frontal looks, walks, and talks like a turkey and it is just that. It doesn't matter who stars in it or who directed it. This movie is just a turkey; amateurish crap not worthy of a recommendation. Fortunately, I can work and watch films at the same time....assuming they aren't subtitled or have alot of visual stuff. I was able to just listen to FF (it is mostly dialogue with little to look at) while working. Otherwise I would haven't been able to stand the monotonous droning of small talk and would have pulled out early. Pass (substitute vowel of choice) on Full Frontal. (D) "},{"Title":"Sporadically entertaining and interesting, it is nowhere near as clever as it thinks it is and suffers from Soderbergh having way too much freedom","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is film star Gus' fourth birthday and he has arranged a massive party in his honour. His friends and colleagues are a group of people with little or not connection between them but we follow them as they come together and collide as they all wake up and get through the day to the party.Opening with the title sequence of the movie within this movie, Full Frontal starts out just as disjointed as it continues. Those looking for more than a collection of individually entertaining and interesting scenes should avoid because the film never once stands together as a whole. Instead the film jumps around in space, time, film stock and approach and delivers a patchwork quilt of a movie. As a result some of it works and is interesting while other parts are just annoying and out of place. It is all a folly and, like others have said, it is a bit like a Hollywood home movie, with Soderbergh given too much freedom to do whatever he wants and letting it all go to pot as a result.The all-star cast are perhaps interesting enough to be worth a look and they do all provide some interest. Keener is brilliant as ever; Pierce is good; Underwood is reasonably good. Roberts wears lots of different hairstyles while Duchovny and Katt provide good side turns. Cameos include Pitt, Fincher, Oh, Jones, Stamp and Soderbergh himself. Mostly all the cast do well and it is not their fault that the film is as disjointed as it is then.Overall then, worth seeing for what it is &#150; a disjointed collection of ideas and scenes with some good dialogue delivered by an all-star cast. There isn't really a film here and I can totally understand why this annoyed many viewers. Sporadically entertaining and interesting, it is nowhere near as clever as it thinks it is and suffers from Soderbergh having way too much freedom. "},{"Title":"Experimental, unconventional, I enjoyed much of it, but most viewers won't.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw the DVD version of Full Frontal. Among other things, it has an interview with Soderberg, explaining why he made this low budget ($2Million) experimental film. Since the lines between 'acting' and reality are blurred anyway, he used the style and content to illustrate that blurring, and then blur it further. The story style was to begin with two people, then the next scene would have one of those plus a third, and so forth so that all characters were interconnected, even if loosely. Most of the 'film' is often shaky, grainy, soft-focus images from a digital camera. Other parts are normally filmed and presented beautifully. We figure out that some of what we see is supposed to represent real people living their real lives, while some of is supposed to represent actors making a movie. Until the very end we don't know for sure, and when it is over we still (at least I) don't know for sure. Soderberg was aware that only a small percentage of the viewers would like his film, and he accepted that.It is filled with 'stars' -- David Duchovny as Gus, whose party many were going to, Nicky Katt as Hitler in a stage play, Catherine Keener as Lee, who was married to David Hyde Peirce as Carl, Mary McCormack is Linda, a massage therapist who is planning to travel to Tuscon to meet someone she contacted via the internet, Julia Roberts is Catherine/Francesca who is making a movie with Blair Underwood as Nicholas/Calvin. Much of the dialog is improvised, and often we feel like we are watching someone's real life unfolding before us. Who is this film for? Those who don't mind seeing something very different on occasion, and can enjoy the craft of film-making, even if there may not be a worthwhile story attached to it. Someone who can turn off their 'serious' side for a couple of hours and just immerse themselves in a different form of mostly funny entertainment.SPOILERS. A big piece of the 'story' involves Anne's (Linda?) preparation to fly to meet someone in Tuscon. He lied about his age, so thinking he was much younger, she lied also. In reality they were both around 40. At the airport, before boarding the plane, they quite accidentally met at the soda fountain and seemed to connect, even though they did not know who each other was. Then, on the plane they ended up sitting together (SW Airlines, open seating), and as we begin to wonder where this chance meeting will go, the camera pulls back to show us that they are not really on a plane, but on a set making a movie. So, what was real, in the 100 minutes of the film?? "}{"Title":"NOT EXACTLY GOING ALL THE WAY","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" FULL FRONTAL  (2002) *** Julia Roberts, Blair Underwood, Catherine Keener, David Hyde Pierce, Mary McCormack, David Duchovny, Nick Katt, Enrico Colantoni (cameos as themselves Brad Pitt, David Fincher)  Filmmaker Steven Soderbergh's hit & miss experiment a la the `Dogma' school of production serves as a vanity piece, agent provocateur on the Hollywood inside track and a rambling improvisatory exercise held together under the conceit of a movie within a movie (within a movie &#150; like a Chinese box puzzle) that is at times hysterically, darkly funny and self-congratulatory  &#145;look at me slumming with digital camerawork' (the harsh graininess is the biggest complaint).  Admiration and an e for effort in trying something different even if the sum of its parts are disjointed.    "}]