[{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I was lucky enough that I got to watch this film on a road trip in someone else's car, as opposed to wasting 90 minutes of my own time (as well as a couple bucks). If you are forced to watch this film, that is probably the only time you should waste watching it. It tries to be funny, but fails miserably. I believe one review I read of it said that it disguised its funny moments better than the main character disguised himself. Sadly, that's the complete truth. Adults, you will find nothing here that's amusing, unless you're really into totally lame, flat jokes. Kids, you will neither find anything amusing in the movie, as the actors are not funny enough to entice any one of any age. The direction was also poor, and the crude humor was (as is in most movies) pointless and dumb. I felt embarrassed just watching it. Skip this movie, and you will miss nothing. "},{"Title":"a comedy totally devoid of laughs","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  `The Master of Disguise' raises &#150; and indeed answers &#150; the question of whether or not it is possible for a movie that bills itself as a `comedy' to run from beginning to end without offering a single funny moment.  (The answer, by the way, is, yes, it can be done).  Thus, while his `Wayne's World' partner, Mike Myers, is out there making both a fortune and an indelible impression on pop culture with his `Austin Powers' franchise, poor Dana Carvey is reduced to appearing in disastrous vehicles like this one.  Now don't get me wrong.  I love Carvey's work on `Saturday Night Live,' especially his impersonations of many of the major political figures of our time.  However, Carvey's manic, over-the-top style is, apparently, a whole lot easier to take in small doses.  Watching him mug, cavort and pratfall his way through a laughless script for the better part of an hour and a half ultimately becomes as wearying as it is embarrassing to watch.Stealing much of its concept from `The Mask,' `The Master of Disguise' involves Carvey in some nonsense about a family of crime fighters who are able to magically don all sorts of disguises at a moment's notice.  This allows the filmmakers to enlist the aid of a number of real life celebrities who end up making cameo appearances, in the misguided belief, most likely, that this was going to be a fun, entertaining movie comedy.  Boy, were they misled.  Actually, I have rarely seen a film in which the jokes, `bits' and setups fall as consistently flat as they do here.  To get a general notion of the level of humor in this film, please note that the running gag involves one character's tendency towards uncontrollable flatulence.  It isn't funny the first time it happens and, believe me, it is even less funny the fourth, fifth (or is it sixth?) time around.In addition to the celebrity walk-ons (Bo Derek, Jesse Ventura, Paula Abdul, among others), Harold Gould, James Brolin, Jennifer Espinoto, Brent Spiner and Edie McClurg are all good sports who deserve better material than what they have been handed here.  So is Carvey when you come right down to it.  But then Carvey wrote the screenplay, so he HAS to be a good sport about it.  After all, he handed HIMSELF this material.  I hope the other actors trapped in this mess at least got paid well for their endeavors.The only good news is that, in the closing credits, we get to see many of the scenes, lines and characters that were, apparently, filmed, then dropped from the final product.  One can only imagine how much worse the film would have been had they all been allowed to stay in.      "},{"Title":"i may be only 14 but....","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"43 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  this movie was way way way way kiddish, it was cute and everything, a cute idea and all that but it was way too kiddish for anyone over 8, i mean it was funny at some parts but kind of annoying at most, i wouldnt reccomend it for many, it bored me right down to the ground so dont go see it unless your with your little brother or sister or are a parent  "},{"Title":"Dana, what in goodness name were you THINKING?!??!?!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"48 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Oh my....was this a stinker.I tired to give it as much of a chance as possible because..you cannot believe everything you read from critics..and you cannot believe everything you hear.With the Master of Disguise, you can. This was awful. I don't really think they meant it to be awful, I mean the story sounded good, I'm sure...on paper..to a bunch of film executives who were drunk at the time they heard it. Then it probably got by a bunch of other folks in various forms of development who thought, This could really be a silly little film that would catch on. But it wasn't and didn't.In some other universe, I wish there was a better script to punch up the story but they relied too much on Dana's characters that were god-awful and unfunny. This movie was painful to watch -- painful to see talented people on film in a very untalented movie. Someone should have pulled the plug..ceased production for a decade..something..anything.But here we are. This is a major pass..under any circumstance. "},{"Title":"Master Of Disguise...more than meets the eye.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"34 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sheer genius cannot even begin to properly address this cinematic achievement, to call it any less is an insult. Dana Carvey, on the surface, plays a bumbling Italian waiter who inherits the power of disguise; however, if you dig a bit deeper & peel away the layers, you'll find a motion picture which is a scathing, yet biting social political statement on society as a whole. One cannot begin to hopefully comprehend or decipher all the psychological & stereotypical boundaries this film breaks. It is a surprise to find this film in mainstream theaters as a film on this level & caliber would normally only be found in the finest arthouse theaters. If you plan on seeing Master of Disguise, I suggest keeping your afternoon free, as after viewing, no after witnessing it, you'll need the rest of the afternoon to invest in deciphering the dense narrative. Admittingly some of the jokes were over my head, but all truly great comedies take a bit of effort for comprehension. Only for serious film viewers & students of the artform as a whole. "},{"Title":"Master of Disaster","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"39 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Dana Carvey is an extremely talented comedian,which makes it a shame that his efforts since his Saturday Night Live days have fallen,at least for the most part,miserably flat.The latest effort,The Master of Disguise,is no exception.This film is horrid from top to bottom.It is a poor execution of what was a poor story idea to begin with.Executive Producer Adam Sandler's ideas about comedy may work when Sandler himself is in the film,but he has yet to produce a good effort when solely behind the camera.Carvey's efforts to make this a good film are indeed valiant,but he can't do it alone.Even the character names (Pistachio Disguisey?) are evidence that not a lot thought were given to them.The supporting cast seems lost to the point where they don't give good support at all.Don't waste your time or your money.Here's hoping that Dana Carvey will strike creative gold in the near future.He deserves it. "},{"Title":"Completely silly, completely stupid, completely hilarious","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"33 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to say, I'm a little dissapointed that everyone's ripping this movie to pieces.  Granted... the story makes very little sense (this didn't seem to stop Austin Powers 3 from getting rave reviews), but you know what?  So what?  This film is a fast-paced kid's movie and there's only one reason to see it Dana Carvey.  He's absolutely brilliant.  He creates one of his best characters ever (The Turtle) and does some of his best impersonations ever as well (Robert Shaw from Jaws was a personal highlight of mine.)When I saw this film, everyone in the theater laughed the whole way through.  This is a film that will completely go over your head if you try to intellectualize it.  It's just good, dumb fun.  It reminds me a bit of those really insane 60s comedies, except that it's for kids.  I have a feeling that this film will come to be appreciated over time on video and tv. "},{"Title":"not for narrow-minded people over 12 years old","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I mean, c'mon!! It was supposed to be dumb! My kid laughed and his friends laughed and I admit even I laughed at Who's your Daddy?. After two viewings over the weekend, the kids were quite solemnly quoting lines and then laughing. OK there's a fart joke too many, big deal, Carvey has a good time putting on tons of costumes and following the obviously silly story line as if it was something credible. The 2.9 average here is completely off base. It's not gonna be anybody's all-time classic favorite, but the way this film got sent to the cleaner really is almost unique. If you have a roomful of 11 to 13 year old boys, it's raining and it's absolutely necessary to kill a couple of hours, you'd probably rate really high if you brought this back from the rental shop. "},{"Title":"watch the trailer","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"30 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Sitting through this movie is completely worthless because everything that appears to be funny is in the trailer. I went expecting to see Dana Carvey go crazy with all kinds of disguises, but he is in costume for only the last 20 minutes or so, and basically every single one of the disguises is in the trailer. Don't waste your time, watch something else.Elements of the plot that attempt to keep the movie going for the first hour are immature and crude. It isn't suitable for young kids and adults have nothing to laugh at. Nothing is clever or creative. The movie is a sad jumble of wasted film. Unfortunate the Carvey submitted himself to such a production. "},{"Title":"The Trailers were Funnier than the Film.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  As I was leaving the theater, I overheard one 12-year old tell another, that was a dumb movie.  About the only laughter I heard during the showing of this so-called comedy were toddlers responding to Brent Spiner's flatulence.  If you haven't seen it yet, it's probably best you keep it that way. I gave it a '1' because I couldn't find the zero button.  "}{"Title":"A comedy that makes you wish you were dead","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If I could give this movie a negative rating, I would have.I loved Dana Carvey on SNL. He was funny, had great timing. He did a great job in the Wayne's World movies too. He worked great when his movies stayed within the 15-30 demographic.Then he destroyed his career with the Master of Disguise.This 'comedy' was so bad that it made me feel terrible just for watching it. I was embarrassed to be watching this movie in public. There's nothing funny about openly pitying an actor as you watch him force the run time to 80 minutes with jokes so flat they don't even register above the painfully boring dialog.Painful is a good way to describe this movie. Nothing works. Sometimes you can't even tell when the jokes had happened. That's how bad they were. I watched this with my brother and found myself asking was that supposed to be a joke? I guess so, because it happened over and over again.I don't find his fake Italian accent as annoying as many of the reviewers, but how the hell is repeating the word turtle over and over again while dressed in a turtle suit to get into a turtle club supposed to be funny, let alone plausible in the plot? Was everybody involved with the film consistently drunk as this was being made? Surely somebody must have said something like Guys, this really sucks. Lets burn it and never speak of it again. I suggest anybody who accidentally came into possession of this bumbling nightmare do the same, to rid the world of its horrors forever. "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!!!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie!! It was so cute!! I had wanted to see it ever since I first saw the trailer for it. I am a big fan of Dana Carvey and I thought he was great in this movie. I can understand why most of you people didn't like it because he made this especially for his children who are under 13. I loved his little Italian accent and I thought he looked so cute. I went with my dad (who's in his 40's) and my 10 year-old sister and they both laughed! My sister was laughing out loud and there were some parts that I laughed so hard tears came to my eyes. I think I laughed the hardest at the Turtle Guy part. I really liked the guy from India who was charming the snake. I loved the voice he used. Yeah, this movie ain't nothing like the work he did on Saturday Night Live but he does use his talent here and I just enjoyed it. I laughed and that's what Dana wanted the people to do when they saw this movie. It was so great.  Oh, and I will own this movie when it comes out on video!!!   "},{"Title":"There's No Disguising This As a Good Movie...(Contains Spoilers...As if it even matters)","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Before I saw this movie, I thought there was a good reason for the Turtle Guy but I was wrong because there isn't even a good reason for this movie!This movie is awful. Its fast-paced for no reason, the plot is incoherent, and the jokes are bland and played out. I think this movie should have been named Spy Kids because the real Spy Kids makes this movie look infant.Where to start...Where to start...Dana Carvey's Character, Pistachio Disguisey, is not a lovable character...You feel sorry for him. He has the mind of an eight-year-old and you can tell that from the beginning. And it boggles the mind that Jennifer Esposito's character...Named Jennifer could even fall in love with a moron like him. James Brolin might as well stick to his AAMCO commercials, because after his character gets kidnapped, James himself spends the a good part of the movie in the back seat of a car, not to mention his overly played Italian accent that sounds more like an Italian-American accent. And Brent Spiner, what were you thinking? His character, Devlin Bowman, is just a villain without a cause, or should I say a villain without a reason for his cause. His character wants to steal all the world's rarest items but instead, for what reason was not disclosed at all.Master of Disguise is like connect the dots without dots...Its nothing to connect to. I wanted this movie to be funny, because I like Dana Carver, but it just wasn't... Sorry Dana. "},{"Title":"I Thought It Would Have Been Good to See Dana Carvey Back But..","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Oh my!  Opportunity Knocks and Clean Slate were not exactly film classics, although compared to this movie, they may as well have been works of Shakespeare.  Arguably the dumbest movie I have ever paid money to see in theatre (thanks to My Big Fat Greek Wedding being sold out), this does not fit in the dumb but funny category of most of Adam Sandler's or Chris Farley's films, but in the jaw-droppingly dumb category.  My wife and I often gazed at each other in amazement during this movie, unable to exactly process that something this truly silly and dumb was made (much less by Dana Carvey and Adam Sandler) and even stranger that others in the crowded theatre were laughing their heads off!  We were excited to see Dana Carvey back in the movies, but there was good reason why this movie was not screened for review ahead of time.To continue, I should say we had misgivings about seeing the film after the TV trailers that kept showing the turtle sequence, but decided that part was just silly fun and there's no way the rest of the movie could be so unclever and dumb.  To our amazement, that was easily the most intelligent and serious part of the film!  Think carefully before wasting your time with this one..  I score it a generous 3/10. "},{"Title":"Not all SNL graduates get a degree in film.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  As much as I may have liked Dana Carvey on SNL, this movie is a very poor display of his talent.  Dana has been dealt some bad hands lately with his smart comedy show being prematurely cancelled, his heart surgery mishap, and being out of the public spotlight for so long.  His other SNL friends are making money, so why not him too?The movie was just an excuse to dress up and act silly, and the characters are not some of his better ones.  Much of the jokes were references to pop culture, a cheap trick that will date the movie very soon.  The only laughs from the audience were the cheaply low reoccurring fart jokes.  The plot was incoherent and it jumped around too much the editor must have been drunk.  The outtakes and gags while the credits were rolling would make even Jackie Chan woozy.On a positive note, this movie was very clean.  There were a few minor PG jokes, but this movie could be shown unedited on TV.  In an age where crude jokes are the norm to get a laugh, this movie, for the most part, avoided it.  Kids might find it amusing, but that's about it.  I so wanted him to be funny, but too bad the movie is just...well...bad.  "},{"Title":"I can'T believe pple spend thousands of dollars for such a crap","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I looked at the box cover I told myself hey it might be decent.. But, when you watch this you find out you should have gone for a walk instead. Of course, the Turtle Guy part brings a little smile, but I think it's the only thing funny in the movie. There is no structure in this movie, the story unfolds bad, Dana Carvey does his best and what the director tells him and he's not very funny. however , I liked Brent Spiner ( star trek's Data) as a vilain. Even a kindergarten would get bored with this ( should I say crap ) ?  "},{"Title":"Save your time and money!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Save your time and money-I can't believe Adam Sandler had his name attached to this. My kids didn't even like it. The funniest part of the movie is during the credits. Dana Carvey needs to stay away from writing. Funny guy but not a funny story. "},{"Title":"Perhaps I'm being lenient because it wasn't horrid....","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" ...but it wasn't.  It had cameos almost as good as Goldmember. It has a babe as babe-esque as Men in Black II.  And though it did have a running fart gag, it wasn't as gagging as Fat Bastard's.  It was...well, restrained. Dana Carvey wasn't doing Jerry Lewis.  His character actually was trainable and actually could take care of himself, push come to shove.  And that was worth an extra point up the rating scale. "},{"Title":"they should rename this movie, When filmmakers get high","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" some rainy, cold, day in 2001, a group of movie makers got together and started talking about what good movies they have ideas of. the only problem was, that it was at a bar. after about 2 hours they were all insanely drunk. then they started naming ideas, like, hey! lets have terrible acting in a movie! another one said, yeah! and tons of forced unfunny humor! another said, no movie would be complete w/o decent acting! then last off, another one said,and lets tie it all together w/ a storyline that makes no sense and is embarrassingly dumb! they all combined their ideas and made, The Master of Disguise and it was everything they hoped it would be. "},{"Title":"A film for the very young-at-heart (or the very simple-minded)","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I fully expected this film to be a vehicle for Carvey's numerous parodies as seen while a successful cast member of Saturday Night Live. In fact, this is what I was counting on. Instead, I was subjected to the most purile and sophomoric humor I have had to endure in a very long time. The entire film seems to have been haphazardly constructed to string together the many character impersonations he has developed, unfortunately, at the expense of an actual plot.The result is a disjointed storyline that even the pre-pubescent target audience must have found confusing, if not down right annoying. Considering that this film was obviously meant for a much younger viewer than the previews would have you believe, I was shocked when at one point in the story, Pistachio is taught that it is wrong to strike someone with a closed fist, but perfectly acceptable to slap them with an open palm, a technique used heavily throughout the film.Unless you are under the age of six, or just a die-hard Dana Carvey fan who can't miss a single one of his performances, I highly suggest you steer clear of this dog. "}{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I am shocked to see such a low user rating for this movie. Looking at the user rating of 2.9, one may think that its one of the worst movie ever made but that would not be right. I saw this movie a few years back on TV and thought it was really funny. Yes, this movie doesn't make any sense but that's why its a silly movie but it sure makes you laugh and that's the reason why we watch a comedy. By the way, not many great comedy movies make sense or adhere to logic all the time because they need not do that, they are just suppose to be funny. So don't be fooled by the poor user rating and watch the movie and then decide whether it is really that bad. "},{"Title":"does not deserve to be in the bottom 100","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" i'm in my early 30s and i thought it was funny. it's certainly not on par with the brilliant comedies made by monty python, but it's much better than 95% of the PG-13 garbage that continues to be released.it was refreshing to see a PG comedy that wasn't centered around children. i really liked the gammy num nums disguise, and i wish they had been able to work the Mayor Maynot disguise in the movie along with the painting guy. thankfully they were both on the DVD.i've watched it twice now, and will watch it again. dana talked (on a DVD featurette) about how he originally wanted to make a mission impossible type comedy with the master of disguise being part of the team, so maybe he'll go to back to that for a sequel; although, it seems unlikely since the first seems to be rather unpopular.6/10 "},{"Title":"Master of Crap is more like it","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A truely horrible movie.  I don't care if it's meant for kids, even eight year old boys should be able to watch this and say, that was the worst movie i have ever seen.  It's sensless, plotless, and just generally stupid.  Full of crude humor (which isn't even funny) and bad acting, this (along with the tuxedo) is one movie which doesn't deserve to be called that, a movie.   "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the silliness and fun of this film.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It's one of those movies that people who like will watch over and over. It's silly, it's fun and it looks like the people making it had a ball. For me there were many funny scenes, like Dana's impersonation of Quint from the Jaws movie, and the extras shown during the credits. Some scenes fell flat, but the intention was there. There were many good in-jokes as well like Pistacchio's impersonation from the hit movie Shrek (since Mike Myers and Dana Carvey have worked together on many ventures). Interesting that Adam Sandler is one of the executive producers and this is about 1000 times funnier than his anger filled junk. "},{"Title":"The Master of Disguise","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer for this film when I was younger and on holiday in America, from just the short montage of clips I could tell it would be a terrible film, and it is now considered one of the worst films ever made. Basically Pistachio Disguisey (Wayne's World star Dana Carvey) is a sweet-natured Italian waiter at his father's restaurant, his father Fabbrizio (James Brolin) happens to be a member of the family, one of many, who possess the supernatural skill of disguise. Pistachio's father and Mother Disguisey (Edie McClurg) are kidnapped by Fabbrizio's former arch-enemy and criminal mastermind Devlin Bowman (Brent Spiner) who is attempting to steal the world's most precious treasures, including the U.S. Constitution, the Liberty Bell and the Apollo 11, using Fabbrizio disguising himself as celebrities to gain access, including Razzie nominated Bo Derek Predator's Jesse Ventura (also a governor) and singer Jessica Simpson. Grandfather Disguisey (Patch Adams' Harold Gould) shows up up the restaurant to show his grandson the power he has inherited from his family, and it is up to Pistachio, as the Master of Disguise, to save his parents and stop the villain in his tracks. Disguises Pistachio assimilates throughout the film, and in the end credits, include the Turtle Guy, Mr. Peru (Tony Montana from Scarface), Quint from Jaws, Terry Suave (David Niven), Cherry Pie Man, George W. Bush, Mayor Maynot, Bob Ross, a Vampire, Charlie McCarthy with an Edgar Bergen mannequin, Groucho Marx, Captain America, Gluteus Maximus from Gladiator, Forrest Gump and a Caveman. Helping Pistachio in his mission, and slowly becoming his love interest, is Jennifer Baker (Jennifer Esposito), going through the various guises the hero gets closer to stopping Bowman's plan, in the end Pistachio stops the villain and saves his parents. Also starring Maria Canals-Barrera as Sophia, Austin Wolff as Barney Baker and Paula Abdul. Carvey apparently does not want a superstar status like Mike Myers, that is a relief to know considering this film, he is a predictable Italian goof ball who only made me titter dressing as a turtle and some recognisable character impressions, he is definitely not a rival for the original Man of a Thousand Faces Lon Chaney, the disguises with makeup are mildly diverting, but it cannot hide a silly script and a daft plot that hardly makes you laugh at all, it was surprising to read it did well at the cinema, now thankfully it is recognised as a ridiculous and pointless fantasy comedy. Poor! "},{"Title":"The WORST movie I have ever seen!","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm a movie lover at heart and I like good comedy, especially from Dana Carvey (having enjoyed his work on SNL and Wayne's World). Alas, despite some potential, the whole experience feels like a cataclysmic mess. I don't know what exactly drove me to watch this movie when in came in theaters. The trailer made it look pretty funny, but when I watched it I only laughed once (Mr. Peru joke) and that one moment was the only good thing I can squeeze out of this poorly executed comedy. I feel bad for Mr. Carvey, he knows how to make people laugh, but the plot was ridiculous, and the character he plays was actually annoying than likable, making Inspector Clouseau look like a genius. This movie made me further appreciate his other work. "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I think this is the only movie that I've ever walked out on. It was just dreadful! A sad case of where the trailers for the movie were actually better than the movie itself. It wasn't funny in the slightest. My buddy and I gave it an hour in the hope it would get better - and as the saying goes, that's an hour of my life that I won't get back. I do have great admiration for Dana Carvey as a comedian, but not in this movie!! I can't believe he didn't realize how bad it was when reading the script. Avoid this one like the plague. Wish I could say it had a redeeming feature, but it doesn't. And judging by the other IMDb reviews, I'm by no means the only person who thinks this was total rubbish! "},{"Title":"The Master of Disgust","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the Worst movie that I have ever seen! What a waste of time, could have been folding & matching socks. I emailed Dana Carvey to get my $6 back. This should be in the IMDb's Worst 100, near the absolute bottom 5. A man like Dana Carvey should have never done this film. Wouldn't waste a match to burn the original tape to prevent future watching. Rating this a minus 2 stars. This movie lacks any funny bits, direction, or a reason to stay awake. I took my son, age 12, to see this movie since he like TMNT's movies. Stay with the Teenage turtle movies. I expected to the appeal to kids, boys especially, and to adults with Mr. Carvey being in this flick. Not so, my son even wanted to leave movie after about 30-40 minutes in. Thought it would be better, failed. This clearly was the conversation in the Sony corporate 11th floor office,Hey we have too much money into this piece of S%%# film, we have to release to try to re-coop what we paid Dana "},{"Title":"Annoying and not funny at all","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Pistachio Disguisey (Dana Carvey) is a waiter at his father Fabbrizio (James Brolin)'s restaurant. For centuries, his family has used skills of disguise and mimicry to fight evil. However Fabbrizio decided to keep Pistachio out of the life. Fabbrizio and Mother Disguisey (Edie McClurg) are kidnapped by archenemy Devlin Bowman (Brent Spiner) who is using Fabbrizio to steal the world's treasure. Grandpa Disguisey (Harold Gould) shows up to teach Pistachio the family business. They hire Jennifer Baker (Jennifer Esposito) as the assistant.The silly voices, the making faces, it was fun for one second, OK! The Bo Derek bit is cute but the annoying accent just .... annoyed the heck out of me. Dana Carvey is just mugging for the camera, not in a funny or likable way. It's at best tiresome, at worst racist. At some point, I don't even count the stereotypes as a deficiency. Jennifer Esposito's character is mildly embarrassed by Pistachio and I think she's mildly embarrassed by this movie in real life. "},{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is terrible. The only semi-funny bits are juvenile fart jokes (which they repeat throughout the movie as a running gag). I've seen serious drama that was funnier than this movie. Even Greek tragedy is funnier than this movie. Basically, this movie is supposed to be funny, but instead it's cringe worthy. The raison d'être of this movie is that Dana Carvey is good at impersonating people, so that's what he does throughout the movie - but it just isn't funny at all. Yes, there is a really stupid throwaway story about a lineage of masters of disguise, but that's just a setup for Dana's impersonations. And they're not funny. He does an impersonation of Scarface which people seem to like, but even that one is overacted - which is kind of impressive when you consider how Al Pacino did chew the scenery in the original movie. Dana Carvey just CANNOT ACT, and he doesn't even try. He can make stupid mime style faces, that's all. I cannot imagine who their target audience was? This is way too juvenile for the Wayne's World crowd, but this wasn't presented as a children's movie, but rather a Dana Carvey vehicle?The producers of this must be blamed. What were they thinking?Avoid this movie at all cost - you have been warned! "}{"Title":"the end credits are too long","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This review is only to tell you this movie keeps you hostage during the end credits.Just when you think this movie cant possibly kill anything else besides ruining comedy, the movie decides it also wants to kill our time.Yeah. Just when you think it's time to go home, it turns out the movie is only around 65 minutes long. God, it feels such an eternity longer, but nevertheless, that's the running time. So they literally fill up 15 minutes of credits with bloopers, alternate takes, deleted scenes... they're pretty much forcing you to watch all the special features of the DVD because they know, for a fact, you'll never be interested enough in seeing them! And it just keeps going... and going... and going... and going! (credits appear to end) Ah, here we g-F__K! (one minute later, credits appear to end) Ah, there we go finally-F__K! What you people still doing here? You tell me a**hole, you're the one keeping us hostage! (credits appear to end) Ah, here we g-F__K! (says goodbye, credits appear to end) Is that it?? Is that really it??? Are we truly done now?? (talking dog appears on-screen) AAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!! (smashes the DVD) These credits take up 20% of the movie's time.Nevertheless, this movie is terrible and awful, and it kills comedy! "},{"Title":"That movie was the worst i ever see","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" That movie have with very stupid scenes and very basic characters. If you no have seven years or less do not watch this movie!Watch this was the perfect excuse to not study, but even so it was a big waste of time. In all the circumstances, that movie its a waste of time. The trailer it's so much fun that the movie, at Discovery Channel have better programs than this movie and very more funs, even the murder programsin resume, my advice is don't watch this movie, its the antithesis the commedia "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever made.","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I've never written a movie review before but after watching this, I felt obligated to perform a public service. If it's any indication, my 4 year old daughter left the room 15 minutes in, I suspect she found it too immature. I lasted another 10 minutes (due to the fact that I'm not nearly as mature as most 4 year olds) before I turned it off. This is NOT the worst movie ever made, that movie was substantially better than this one. You have been warned. This line is filler because my review does not meet the 10 line requirement. I tried keeping this short because watching the show has wasted enough of my time already. Hopefully I can spare you some of yours. "},{"Title":"A movie about actors, really","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  _Master_of_Disguise_ is a niche market movie made and designed by Saturday Night Live folks of today or recent yesteryear. It stars Dana Carvey and also has SNL Adam Sandler in it and he produced it. But, the movie under credits the other stars of the film and fails to mention in its ads the cameos in it that might bring in other niche audiences other than the SNL audience. Brent Spiner plays the villain, Devlin Bowman, and this is one of his bigger non-Star Trek roles.  He seemed to be having a lot of fun in the movie. He gives the character the relish and the glee he gives Lore and some other characters he has also played in the past, but in some ways, it is a new character, but I do see some common denominators between this character and one or more characters he has played in the past.  The other actors and people in the film who were playing themselves, seemed to be having some fun with it also. It is good to watch a movie where one or more actors/actresses really seems to be enjoying what they're doing.  That often seems to be the case with Mr. Spiner. He never leaves his heart behind, but always includes it in any given role. That's one thing that makes Mr. Spiner different from a lot of other actors - he acts with his heart and not just with his head. One catch in the movie is the Cigar Club Turtles which Mr. Carvey has some fun jokes on and Mr. Spiner's character smokes its cigars. But, there really is a Turtle Club out there. It is a secret society. I hear that Johnny Cash is a Turtle. An ex-boyfriend of mine is a Turtle. I may count as a Turtle, too, because I know the secret answer to the secret question.  Anyrate, I laughed all of the way through and saw it 2 extra times for good measure and I don't normally watch SNL because I'm bizzy watching BritComs a lot on Saturday Nights on our local PBS station. But, this was indeed a very funny movie.  Go see it, if you haven't.  Niche markets that might enjoy the film are SNL audience, Star Trek audience, other actors/actresses/personalities' fans such as Jesse Ventura, Turtles, Alpha Phi Omega National Service Fraternity (most APOs are usually Turtles also), and ages 10-mid-twenties or whenever most people outgrow bathroom humor. But, older people may enjoy it also. The movie has the added flavor of most of the actors/actresses having had stage experience. There is always a different feel to T.V. and movie stuff when the actors are people who are used to performing live, on stage for some reason. Maybe it is the over-the-top feel which more recent Star Trek series tend to be lacking on.  It is your basic silly movie that I've heard Patrick Stewart say is, America's gift to the world. (our silliness) "},{"Title":"family fun for all ages","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  You can tell he made this for his kids, and it's a great movie for the family.  The kids were laughing at the silly bits, we parents were laughing at the almost, but not quite, naughty bits, and everybody giggled throughout.  Short enough so the kiddies don't lose interest, long enough to tell the story (which is really rather sweet), and the extra scenes during the credits are worth the price of admission by themselves.  Fun for all! "},{"Title":"Excuse me a moment...","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Saturday. I'm feeling awful. We go to a movie. Okay, my parents go off and see Austin Powers 3 (BIIIIG mistake) and my little sister and I go and see Mike Myer's scrawny little blond buddy, Dana Carvey. So far so good. Right. So the movie starts and I'm wondering if we wondered into Harry Potter, with the candles and everything, but it wasn't, because I don't think Brent Spiner was in Harry Potter. But it starts- and it goes- for quite a bit, and I wonder if maybe I'd better go to sleep. Even when Carvey shows up, his Italian accent is SO IRRITATING I still wonder about dozing off, if that's even possible anymore. Not a great beginning by any means.But wait...sun shining through the clouds a little? Well, my little sister's laughing anyway. So okay, Carvey's charming a snake. Well, he charms me if he's trying hard enough, so the snake's no big deal. So what? Okay...he's dressed as a turtle. Oh my gosh! He's a big turtle with a bald head and a pointy lip and he's bugging everybody and THE AUDIENCE IS GOING WILD!!! I'm sorry, but I have to stand in Carvey's defense. The main character is a bit of a one-joke, and the joke isn't all that good (keep away from 'funny names'). But the people he slides in as are funny! The turtle, the old lady, the, the, the, and my personal favorite, the British Fellow. I love the British, even if they do look like Dana Carvey and actually aren't British. The British Fellow was my favorite. And the fact is, after the movie got going, and except a few parts when Carvey was being Pistachio (one-jokio) the movie was very funny and good for an entertaining evening, especially if you're with somebody of a youthful mentality who laughs at every fart that comes off the screen (okay, so it was funny once, but they shouldn't have put it in every time). It was ridiculous and fairly badly-written and it wasn't the dialogue that was funny, but the characters! SNL's wild cat is on the movie screen again. Plus I was picturing Carvey teasing Mike Myers about it (Wooh! Whupped YOUR butt, didn't I?) And frankly, the only un-enjoyable thing that evening was the idiot teenaged boys we were sitting next to. Every time there was one of the less tush-deficient ladies on screen, they were...well, making noises. I was driven to adopting my best Graham Chapman voice and saying Shut up, you loopy brothel inmate!!! Well, no, not really, I made that up. Anyway, the movie really brightened my day, and I laughed all the way home, causing great concern to my parents, who had only seen Austen Powers and therefore couldn't figure out what there was left to live for in the world. "},{"Title":"Master of comedic talent, failure at screenwriting","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went out and saw this movie right away because I knew that Dana Carvey had a real talent for impressions, that almost everything he did on Saturday Night Live was hillarious, and that I saw a lot of the same comedic talent in the movie's ads in the past couple weeks.  The previous review here further cemented my decision to see this movie immediately.  What I found, however, left me irritated and empty.In short, the only funny parts of the movie were during Dana Carvey's caricatures.  The rest of the movie was a sorry attempt at screenwriting. First off, I didn't realize beforehand that this movie could've been rated G except for one nuts and weiners joke;  thus, most of the humor in the screenwriting was more akin to 8-year-olds than fairly mature adults.  But, keeping this in mind, there was still a chance this movie could've been pulled off.  However, the cliche-filled plot wasn't even worth following because it had so many holes in it, it was more akin to a collander. Combine that with only passable acting and very shallow character development (especially in the lead woman character, who had a lot of potential that wasn't realized), and what you have is a movie that is utterly pointless.And this is a real, real shame considering Dana Carvey's obvious comedic talent.  Honestly, the funniest part of the movie was the credits, with all the outtakes and characters that never made it into the movie.  If you're a real Dana Carvey fan, get it on video and fast-forward to his impression-bits and the credits.  Otherwise, see something else. "},{"Title":"No disguising this movie!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My 8 year old and I received passes to see a preview of this movie.   I like Dana Carvey, I really do but oh this movie is a stinker.   My daughter laughed but then again she is 8 and jokes about farting (of which there are many) are just so darn funny to her.   The story was flat, the acting poor. The only funny parts to me, were Carvey's disguise as the Pacino character from Scarface (which looked just like him) and his disguise as the Robert Shaw character from Jaws.  Of course most of the kids had NO IDEA who they were but the adults laughed. Final comment....I'm glad I didn't have to pay to see this movie. "},{"Title":"A half-hour nap with a half-hour of mild interest.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I trust Dana Carvey. He was on an E interview and said that he had made a good family film. He was partly right. There was not too much objectionable (save the plethora of fart jokes and way too many references to a large booty). If Sir Mixalot had been on hand to escort J-Lo around the screen, the big butt references would have been just fine. Anyway, I ramble...The best scenes were of the Pacino (Scarface) impression. It was very good and funny to watch. Esposito is passable and Spiner looked positively bizarre in bright blue eyes.I gave it a 5 for the ability to remain humorous and not have to swear or go over the sexual line for the children's sake.  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I like Dana Carvey very much; however, I did not get one laugh out of this comedy.  It was the worst 1 1/2 hours I have ever wasted. I cannot believe that anybody would waste the time, money or film for this absolutely ridiculous attempt at a comedy. "}{"Title":"So bad that it becomes good...?","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It's when it comes to films like this that I really start to question IMDb's rating system. Because how are you really supposed to rate a film? On the plot? The acting? Cinematography? Entertainment value? Because this one has a shitty plot, okay acting, and pretty bad cinematography and special effects. But the overall suckiness makes it very entertaining. Is it thereby worthy of more stars? I think so. The weirdness and lousy effects makes this film really funny, and if watched between 2300 and 0400; hilarious. Many quotable scenes that won't make sense to anyone who has not yet seen this masterpiece and many other scenes that are just cringe-worthy and better off forgotten about. Despite of the terrible rating and overall mediocre performance this really is a film worth watching. It shows the diversity in films produced and even if you won't like it it will give you perspective on what is good and what's not and you will be able to appreciate real quality movies even more. "},{"Title":"Something Falls Flat Here","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" An Italian waiter (Dana Carvey) fights off a criminal mastermind (Brent Spiner) with his inherited powers of disguise.First of all, this film features an awful George W. Bush disguise. Sure, Carvey did a good job on senior, but apparently not junior? Was it that hard to get makeup that could pull this off? I entered this film expecting something awful. The reviews are bad, the IMDb rating is very low, and it just has a poor reputation. For a while, I could not understand it, as it was rather humorous at times. And Brent Spiner... we need more films with him. Yet, as it went on, it got worse and worse...Maybe this is a movie like Freddy Got Fingered that requires multiple viewings to really get the surreal, abstract humor. But I do not think so. More likely, it just did not have a good script, and it is understandable that Jim Carrey and Adam Sandler would pass on it. "},{"Title":"Austin Powers is emulated...badly","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Look, I'm all for silly movies and I dug the Austin Powers trilogy, but this was just sad. Dana Carvey plays a 23 year old when we know he's 47 at the time (see the problem there?). Most of his dialogue is saying something stupid, and attempting to make us laugh because the movie seems to be under the misconception that random sight gags are funny. The only reason it worked in Austin Powers is because they were smartly done. Here most of them are so hammy you can't enjoy them. On a worse note we have James Brolin as the father and Edie McClurg as the mother. It seems like their only purpose is to have two big names. Brolin's performance is so over the top it's embarrassing and McClurg is well... McClurg, she can only do so much. Spiner as Devlin Bowman is a fart happy crazy man who was put in jail by Brolin's guy. And I do mean fart happy. He does it as comedic relief expecting we'll think the joke is funny if done enough. Fart jokes really just aren't funny. So if you want a smarter movie, scrap this and rent the Austin Powers trilogy. "},{"Title":"Is this supposed to be for kids?","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" So I saw this film for the first time when I was 8. Of course as an 8 year old, I found this film to be hilarious, but I recall my mother finding it absolutely stupid. I remember every kid in my school was talking about the film and quoting it not long after it came out. Now I have re-watched this film as a young adult, and I'm constantly wondering who was the intended audience for this film? The film is rated PG-13, and it's obvious because some of the humour is inappropriate for children. Ironically, most of the humour in the film would only be funny to someone under the age of 12. Overall, the film basically feels like a watered down, more childish imitation of Austin Powers. I can honestly see why this film has been long forgotten by the majority of the population. "},{"Title":"Not that bad, BUT DANA CARVEY?","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Usually I like to write a very constructive review that analyzes the good and bad of any movie. But I just can't.It's not because this movie was that bad. In fact, when I was younger I actually enjoyed it. While it is nothing good, it isn't bad either. In fact, at least it's entertaining for a child.It's just the fact that the protagonist is played by Dana Carvey... I didn't know who he was when I was a kid, but I do now and it hurts seeing him reduced to nothing.It really hurts... It hurts so bad it ruins the film entirely, as well as my mood when I think about it. If you're reading this and don't know who he is, I beg you to check out his SNL work. He is an amazing comedian.Overall, this film is nothing horrendous. It doesn't have much of a message, the comedy can only be enjoyed by small children, and it's quite forgettable. But it's harmless entertainment for children. Adults and teens will want to sit this one out... especially if they know who Dana Carvey is. "},{"Title":"Utter and complete garbage","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" OK so I seen a review of this by Nostalgia Critic and I seen it a long time ago on TV and BOY did this movie bloody suck BIG TIME. The film is about a sky Italian waiter called Picastro Disguisy(yeah what a weird name right) who learns that his generation are master of disguises. So his grandfather trains him to be the best master of disguise ever.Seriously this film is fall down FLAT and Adam Sandler is involved in the making of this film through his company Happy Madison. I do like Sandler but to produce this piece of crap is BEYOND me. Save your money for something else.1/10 "},{"Title":"just another review of this lousy flat waste of time","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I didn't expect much from this movie - based on the reviews and what I got was even less than I expected.As like most of the other stuff that Adam Sandler has his hands on, or any connection with whatsoever - this is dismal, shoddy and embarrassing on all levels - and almost no coherent redeeming value.Do yourself a favour and avoid this one as well. It's a failure from the first 2 minutes - because there is no plot, the characters are poorly created, the casting is totally off and there is little if anything else to keep you amused or entertained.Like most of the other reviewers of this movie, I too will warn you - and it's your responsibility if you don't take it.This is beyond a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Does Not Deserve So Much Hate!","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" If you were planning on watching this movie, don't listen to these other reviews! I am 14 years old, and I love this movie. Now that I'm a teenager, I criticize almost everything my 9 year old brother watches. But when he showed me this movie, I thought it was hilarious. Dana Carvey is great in all the characters he does, and come on; Happy Madison has done so many movies just like this, you couldn't expect too much from it. Some parts are extremely dumb, but many of the jokes are actually pretty good. In my opinion, this movie is not as good as Wayne's World, but it's up there. Definitely watch this with your kids, and you'll probably enjoy it too! "},{"Title":"I WANTED to like this movie...","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched this movie last night, and I really wanted to like it. Really, I did want to like it, I just couldn't. I tried to force myself to laugh in a couple of places, but I just wanted to punch Pistachio in the face. By the end, when he finally realizes his powers (it is so obvious, I wouldn't really call this comment a spoiler, but just in case....)the movie is slightly more interesting.One bright spot did exist - Jennifer Esposito was entirely cute. She has a genuinely attractive way about her that comes through loud and clear. However, she couldn't be cute enough to save this movie if there were three of her.Having said the above, I did wonder how an elementary age kid would have taken it. They might have liked it and thought it was funny, so if you have kids, it might be worth watching. "},{"Title":"WAY too critical folks; good mindless, silly fun!","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I agree with Sex Baby from MA... this movie got a bad rap. If you want to see Dana Carvey in his element, being goofy and playing a bunch of different characters . . . if you know you're watching a movie that's an Adam Sandler production . . . if you just want to kick back and enjoy some silliness (especially fun watching with kids), then this movie can't be beat. IMHO, the laugh quotient ranks up there with any Jim Carey movie (mention Jim Carey because he was originally offered the part, and would have fit the part played by Carvey well too). What the heck; if you choose Master of Disguise for what it's worth (ie you're looking for a movie to evoke some mindless laughter), and you have even a semblance of a sense of humor, you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"A Grossly Underrated Comedy For Younger Audiences","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie has gotten so much hate from reviewers on this site, and I can't help but notice many of them are adults. The fact is that this movie was not made with an adult audience in mind, and thus appeals much more to kids. I first saw this when I was 8 years old, and I loved it. Watching it again as an adult, I can see why anyone above the age of 12 would not like this movie, but as I said, that doesn't mean it's bad.The plot is simple enough; an evil criminal kidnaps Pistachio's (Dana Carvey) parents in order to steal prized possessions from around the USA, and now Pistachio must learn how to utilize his family's ancient tradition of disguise to get them back. As the story goes along, we see Pistachio utilize many different characters to gain access to information, the most memorable being Turtle Guy, and that really is the main point of seeing the movie It has Dana Carvey doing all sorts of funny stuff. To this day, my friends and I still say quotes from his characters.Unfortunately, aside from Carvey's performance, the movie doesn't have a lot to offer. Most of the other jokes are very immature and not funny even to little kids, such as a running gag where the main villain farts in the middle of his evil laugh.For what it is, it's not worth seeing if you're a teenager or older, but if you have kids of your own, put this on for them and see if they like it. "},{"Title":"I disguised myself as a sleeping person while watching this movie","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Quite possibly Dana Carvey's worst movie ever made, this made me dumber by the second. The acting is of the utmost horrible quality and the attempts at making the audience laugh are horrible. The only pleasure you will get out of this movie is the opening credits and the end credits. The only chuckle I had was the scenes that poked fun at the Exorcist and Jaws. Whenever I hang out with some of my friends we always watch this god awful movie because it is one of my friends favorite movies. At no point in the movie did I enjoy it. Yes, this is, somewhat, of a short review, but, all in all, don't go out of your way and see it. In fact, don't see this film at all unless you are under the age of 12 and have the mental capacity of a 5 year old. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but definitely not the worst.","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I accidentally taped this movie one night a long time ago, when I was about 9 or 10. I watched it the next day, and I thought it was hilarious. Granted, that was 4 or 5 years ago, but I still think it's a pretty funny movie. Dana Carvey is a comedic genius, and I thought his part in this film was fantastic. The fact that he masquerades as a lot of slightly retarded and incredibly funny characters is probably the reason why. I look at this movie and I think, now why couldn't I do that? This movie is definitely aimed at audiences who love low-brow, stupid comedy, but for a movie that is aimed at those people, it is actually fairly good. It could have been a lot worse. With quite a few laugh-out-loud moments, this movie redeems itself from the amateur acting, many goofs, and silly storyline. The acting is . . . reasonable, for a movie of this standard, and although the storyline is beyond silly, it fits the whole comedic theme of the movie. So, this movie will be okay for anyone who doesn't mind stupid comedy and is just looking for a laugh. "},{"Title":"Lamentably limp","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I was aware of The Master of Disguise's dubious reputation, and after finally seeing it after years of avoiding it I agree that its reputation doesn't lie. In my opinion, this movie is very poor. Some of the make-up is diverting on a mild level, but that is it. The editing feels cheap and slip-shod, the colours feel diluted and to be honest gave me a headache and the sets and effects are flat. The humour is also of quite a crude kind, including the idea of the villain breaking wind when he laughs, you can tell these are not the ideas of comedy geniuses. The direction is sorely lacking and Dana Carvey clearly looks embarrassed playing a character that is not so easy to relate to, though in fairness none of the characters are that well written at all. The worst parts of The Master of Disguise though are the screenplay which is very lame, the plot which is barely coherent and the mugging which gets increasingly desperate. In conclusion, very poor. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Its reputation doesn't lie, this truly is one poorly crafted and unfunny effort!","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing a trailer for this movie several times in 2002, back around the time it came into theatres, and could remember the Turtle, turtle, turtle! clip more than anything else I saw in that trailer. So, I knew about the film when it was current, but also heard that it was getting really bad reviews. Since then, I have become more familiar with the work of Dana Carvey, who co-wrote and starred in this flick. I have now seen several of his Saturday Night Live sketches, and also the two Wayne's World movies, for which he and Mike Myers brought their headbanging alter egos from SNL to film, so I know that Carvey can be funny. Nearly nine years after The Master of Disguise was unleashed upon the world and disgusted many people, I've finally seen it, and am now not surprised that I can't contradict the majority's opinion.Pistachio Disguisey is a young Italian man who is totally unaware of the fact that he comes from a long line of secret agents who have all been very skilled in disguising themselves for missions. His father, Fabbrizio, decided it was best not to tell his son about the family's legacy. So, instead of being one of these Masters of Disguise, like his father once was but not anymore, Pistachio works as a waiter in his father's Italian restaurant in the United States, where his mother also works. One night, Pistachio's parents are kidnapped by Devlin Bowman, a criminal whom Fabbrizio brought to justice during one of his missions as a Master of Disguise, but this criminal has just gotten out of prison! After this kidnapping, the youngest Disguisey's grandfather comes to him and tells him about the family's legacy, and then trains him to use his Disguisey powers, so he can take on Bowman himself and rescue his parents. Meanwhile, the kidnapper is now forcing Fabbrizio the help him with his criminal activities! I've seen too many unfunny comedies lately, and sadly, this one is no exception. Like probably most people who have seen this universally panned 2002 comedy adventure film, I didn't laugh at all. Two or three gags did force the corners of my mouth up, with one or maybe two of the slaps for example, but even those aren't usually funny, and perhaps get a bit tiresome. The turtle costume clip I saw in the trailer in 2002 may not have looked so bad, but this part of the movie is a great example of the lameness here, with Dana Carvey as Pistachio trying to be funny, but basically just being ridiculously goofy, and the same can probably be said about most of the other disguises. Many of the jokes in the film involve the lead character's fondness of large female buttocks, and this is never funny. There's also a running gag showing that whenever Devlin Bowman laughs, he is soon silenced by his own flatulence, and this doesn't tend to be funny, even if it ALMOST made me smile later on for some reason. Not only is the humour in his film consistently lame, the plot is also boring and clumsily written.After this film was made, Dana Carvey went on hiatus to focus on his family life, and I can't blame him for that, but this sure was a poor piece for him to leave us with. Since then, he has returned to show business, making several TV appearances and showing that he still has his talent, which is something he didn't show when he made The Master of Disguise. It appears he is also returning to the silver screen in the upcoming Jack and Jill, coming from Happy Madison Productions, the company that was also involved in the production of this 2002 disaster, but no matter how good or bad this movie turns out to be, it looks like Carvey will only have a very small part in it. Well, even if he never plays any major film role again, he has proved to be a talented comedian through his decades in the business, despite this terrible film. I'm not sure if my 2/10 rating is too low, even if most people wouldn't think it is, but now that I've seen it after nearly a decade, I can understand why it was so poorly received. "},{"Title":"Liked it as a kid, as an adult...","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Despite what many critics say about it, I don't think this film was THAT bad, but still. Watching it in the theater with my cousin and little brother at the time, all everyone did was laugh. At school, me and my friends used to repeat the jokes and gags we remembered. In my eleven year old mind at the time, I actually thought we were laughing at the funny scenes. It was literally one of the funniest movies I watched. However, watching it again seven years later as a college freshman, I realized everyone, especially the adults were laughing at the over done gags, poor acting, and really childish style the film was made. Really the previews and TV spots showed all the funny parts and the rest of the film was just as bad as a straight to DVD Disney sequel. There were some scenes in there that I thought was to over the top like changing into a new costume in a matter of seconds even more annoying than the last. Jokes at the start of the film I realized on the second time watching it, were recycled through out the entire film like the villain's constant farts after his maniacal laughs. I didn't even laugh once like my eleven year old self almost died of in the theater. I really was surprised to read that Rotten Tomatoes rated this in the 100 worst movies of the decade, but I guess a lot can change in seven years regarding as to what some sees as funny and over the top. I would say don't even bother renting it, but I see no need because it's nowhere to be found. "},{"Title":"Awesome as a kid, terrible as a teenager","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" When i was about 10 years old, this was one of my favourite films. I thought it was hilarious! Now being 17, I can now see how bad this movie actually was. Acting is pretty lame, fart jokes are over-used, all the elements of a bad movie. Pop culture references don't give this film any favors.What impresses me most about the film is Dana Carvey. His impersonations are above average, and save this film from being horrible. Kids will love this, adults may get a chuckle from the impersonations, but it won't please critics. "},{"Title":"This has become one of my guilty pleasures!","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Relax - enjoy this film. It isn't sophisticated, it isn't art, but everyone involved goes for it full speed, and it is really pretty funny. You either get the joke or you don't, but it isn't the horrible train wreck that some are making it out to be, one of the third worst comedies of all time, as has been quoted. And contrary to some other reviews, Dana Carvey does spend a good amount of time in disguise throughout the film. My particular favorites are the Turtle Man and Gammy Num-Nums.I will admit that some of the disguises will go over the young one's heads, but the adults will get it and the kids will still laugh.This film is best described as being many of the things you never thought someone would have the guts to do - and then did. I can't wait for my son to get a little older so I can show this to him. "},{"Title":"There Is A Dark Side No Wait There Is No Other Side","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" People Actually Subjected Themselves To This? Anyone Who Watches This Movie Twice Is A Masocist. I Only Ever Saw This Once Years Ago I Am Still Trying To Control Myself From How Much Crap Movies I've Seen. The Plot Is That A sweet-natured Italian waiter named Pistachio Disguisey at his father Fabbrizio's restaurant, who happens to be a member of a family with supernatural skills of disguise. But moments later the patriarch of the Disguisey family is kidnapped Fabbrizio's former arch-enemy, Devlin Bowman, a criminal mastermind in an attempt to steal the world's most precious treasures from around the world. And it's up to Pistachio to track down Bowman and save his family before Bowman kills them! Now I've Done That Can I Criticize This. This Is A Contender For One Of The Worst Movies Of The Noughties & Yes I Have Seen Charlies Anges 2(No THAT Is The Strongest Contender), The Harry Potter Films(Yes I Do Think They Are Worse Than This), ***Little Nicky, The Dukes Of Hazzard, Date Movie, Epic Movie & Thunderbirds(Yeah They Were All Bad But Nowhere Near This Bad)***. This Is As About As Bad As It Can Get. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks!!!","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The Master of Disguise is one of the worst movies I have ever watched. It is not funny and it is beyond stupid. I have never hated any movie in my life more than this. This movie sucks. Whoever made this movie should be ashamed of themselves.Dana Carvey is a guy who thinks he is good at disguising but he sucks at it. Why doesn't he go join the turtle club and bite the people who made this movie? By the way, the whole movie is not about turtles. What is the point of the name of the club?The only thing this movie would be good for is torture. Watching this films should be a new method of torture for the Hostel movies. "}{"Title":"No wonder he didn't make any other movies after this one...","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched this movie (dubbed in Italian) this morning, as I was forced in bed due to a flu. I don't normally write negative reviews on IMDb, since tastes may vary and movies I didn't like might be good for others, but this one was so terrible that I felt the urgency to come online and post a warning to anyone who might conceive the idea of watching it. Please don't do it - this movie possibly classifies as one of the worst films ever, and not even of the bad but involuntarily funny type; rather of the I'd rather be dead than watch this again type.Basically, the movie revolves around Dana Carvey, who plays an idiot (or is an idiot - at least that's what I think now after watching the movie) who learns to disguise himself perfectly as other people. The entire movie is just an endless series of gags with Carvey disguised as characters who are supposed to be funny and are designed only to let you say oh how good is Dana Carvey in disguising himself; unfortunately, they instead are so obvious, dumb and hopeless that even a 4-year-old would find the movie boring.To make things worse, the writers decided that this was enough for the movie to work, so there is no real plot whatsoever, and you are even confronted with plain inconsistencies in the script - such as when Jennifer Esposito gets invited to the villain's party and introduces herself as Barbara, but once she's there she's repeatedly called Jennifer by everyone. The villain is played by Brent Spiner and now I understand why his career started and ended with Star Trek; moreover, several supposed celebrities (Bo Derek in 2002? Jessica Simpson?) play cameos that should make you think how good is Carvey to disguise himself as these people, but they don't, since he doesn't disguise at all and just hired the real people instead.And when you eventually think that the movie has reached the minimum length to be allowed into theatres so to reap your money and let you go home, Carvey pops up again with just about the worst imitation of George W. Bush ever made, and then tortures you with minutes and minutes and minutes of unfunny bloopers, and no, that's not enough, after the bloopers and final titles end, he feels the need to add an even less funny scene in which he reveals the dwarf that operates the wooden puppet in the movie, and starts to chat with him, and you just want to shoot him, the dwarf and the entire TV set.Bottom line Dana Carvey should not be allowed in front of a camera again, unless he can expiate by watching Naked Gun and Hot Shots at least a hundred times to learn how to do stupid movies properly! "},{"Title":"The Master of Disguise Baaaaaad!","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" There are good films and there are bad films. The Master of Disguise is a bad film. Period. Dana Carvey stars as Pistachio Disguisey, an Italian waiter who has a strange and uncontrollable addiction to mimicking his customers. When his mother (Eddie McClurg) and father (James Brolin) are kidnapped by a criminal mastermind (Brent Spiner), Pistachio learns with the help of his grandfather (Harold Gould) that he has inherited a magical power that allows him to disguise himself as anyone in the world, which he must use to save his parents.I don't know what Dana Carvey was thinking when he decided to take part in this film. I believe that it was a waste of his great acting abilities and this has probably ruined his career (in fact, according to his IMDb page he hasn't been in anything since this.) My main problem with this film are the childish, unfunny jokes. There just aren't any laugh-out-loud parts of the film that I can remember. For example, there is a running joke in which Spiner's character has uncontrollable flatulence and it fails terribly to gain a laugh.I think that they had a good plot line in their hands, but it got lost in the terrible writing. This could have been a classic, fun family film that both parents and children could enjoy and could have made Dana Carvey very well known and more of a household name. It's a shame that this film was so bad because Dana Carvey has so much talent.The only good thing I can come up with about The Master Of Disguise is that kids will love it. But, I have to say that kids are pretty god damn stupid.With bad jokes and childish humour, The Master Of Disguise is a terrible film. I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Farts More Than Farce !","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" What the hell did happen to the American comedy makers ?? Why this insistence on making comedy through farts !!?? It's not funny at all !Well, at one week I've had the pleasure of watching 3 American comedies (Problem Child &#x96; 1989), (Larry The Cable Guy  Health Inspector &#x96; 2006) and this piece of...of art !!, and if you were in my shoes you've got to ask yourself the same question  WHY ?! Did the international taste became that desperately in love with the lowest dirtiest limit of toilet humor ? Then what a nasty world that we're living in anyway to transform its people into ugly suppressed monsters whom love those disgusting Bad movies and ask for more ! Or is it the production companies ? As they used to present any hasty comedy as long as it had the huge amount of farts, vomit, and bad tasting ?, or is it some bankrupt dull artists whom just want to make any possible crap to gain money and fame ?!!It's sick because here you might find some good potential indeed  nice new plot with hot comically atmosphere, a comedian who's determined to be a big star, the powers of make-up, moreover the opportunity to create a different parody out of some distinguished cinematic characters. But the final result was truly unbearable ! I can bet that there wasn't much of actual script in this ! There was nothing but improvisations. Yet very stupid unfunny improvisations. You'd feel the rashness in everything, otherwise why the police ordered (Pistachio) not to call them again ?! Why the grandfather came while nobody called him ? How the grandfather came in the bubble ?? How all the thefts were done so easily because all the guards all over America deliver all its treasures to famous people just because they're famous ??!!, How the lead managed to be that James Bond at the end to beat 20 strong men ?! Not to mention How to disguise as animal's dung ?? How to create a whole character just to fart all along ? In fact it's much simpler than making something novel, distinct, and less sickening. As for the acting, the crime is much bigger ! It's without a doubt the most inferior work for anybody participated in  I've never seen (James Brolin) in worse movie and I kept asking myself how he could bear all of this ?, (Brent Spiner) is a wonderful comedian not a machine to manufacturer farts only !, (Dana Carvey) here is quiet awful to an extent that you wouldn't believe it until you watch it. He intolerably overacted, being dead set to destroy himself with all that detestable continuous Italian accent, his lengthy jokes as well as his inept physical performance&#x85;That wasn't laughable inasmuch as horrible. Sometimes he was over any standing's possibility to turn eventually into the master of silliness ! The only thing to be watchable by him (or in the whole movie) was the impersonation parts especially (Robert Shaw)'s one. However in another treatment in another dimension that could be so enjoyable as a complete movie because what we've already seen was a complete pain ! Overall the best thing here was the creative cartoon of the opening credits. It was the only thing that had been done with intelligent talent which may think more than one time before making any art. And as for the worst thing; it's of course the unforgettable scene of the turtle man&#x85;OH MY GOD that was totally abominable ! Especially when he eats someone's nose then puts it back again ?? Just who would hate himself more (Dana Carvey) for making a movie that nearly ended his cinematic career ? Or us to watch this kind of farts many many times those days ? After reviewing some sites where I found how this movie being so loved (in particular the turtle man part !) I felt that this comedy would make you doleful not because of witnessing bad movie could've been better, but also to witness how people began to love ugliness, filth, and low level passionately....And they made a DVD of it, with a director's narration! Now that's finally a funny thing about this movie!! "},{"Title":"Swing and a miss","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Actually, that might be a bit overstated, I'm not entirely sure the people behind this movie were really trying to make a good movie. This movie seems to me to be a textbook example of Rat Race Syndrome, wherein you get a whole bunch of A-List actors in an effort to make up for a plot which is at its essence crap. However, there's only one thing that keeps this from being such a movie Good actors. Sure, Dana Carvey did a brilliant job with what was handed to him and probably deserves praise for his performance in this god-awful movie. Everyone else, though, came across simply terrible in their efforts, which, I would suspect, were minimal to begin with. As a result, there is the sad likelihood that this movie has ruined Dana Carvey's career. I haven't seen him resurface since this movie, though perhaps I am not looking hard enough. However, I would completely understand him not wanting to show his face anywhere after this extraordinarily terrible movie. "},{"Title":"The Only Disguise Is That It's Pony","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Take 18 cans of lager & a film you have been waiting for from a guy you remember from Wayne's World - What do you get? Well very drunk & a bad head in the morning, not from the lager but from watching this film (i use the word film loosely). I got a email from a website all about the film & I thought it was quite good, when I saw it I changed my mind, from a film I wanted to watch, to a mess I wish I had never seen. From the beginning to about 40 minutes in, it is a mess, from wondering what the hell is happening to what the hell is going on.Sorry Dana, this film is the biggest pile of rubbish I have seen & I have seen Black Knight, but to be fair is does have it's moments, some funny bits, not laugh out loud, but bits you snigger at (i.e Brent Spiner who has got fat - Sorry Star Trek fans but the bloke is now a porker). If you like Dana then please please please do yourself a favour, view with caution, it's ok but it's not great (Dana tries to take Mike Myers on with his Shrek impression - my Nan can do a better one & she's never seen the film). This film has more turkey than Bernard Matthews. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Jaws scene worth price of admission!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was a terrible movie. I saw it to see how bad it would be but it didnt quite become inept enough to be so bad it's Good. I didnt laugh once(Chuckled at Turtle Man though) until Carvey did this impersonation of Robert Shaw as Quint in Jaws to outsmart some dumb hoods. Laughter erupted out of me I couldn't believe how stupid and funny it was at the same time. Can't believe nobody else commented on this? Most people had probably walked out by this time. they should have stayed. The scene was worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"At least Carvey is being sincere..........","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Pistachio Disguisey, a waiter at his fathers restaurant, can't figure out why he compulsively mimics his customers and desires to change his appearance. What he doesn't know is that these traits are part of the Disguisey family legacy. The family come from a long line of people who are able to mask themselves as almost anyone or anything by harnessing the great power of Energico. Such a talent makes his father the target of his arch-enemy Devlin Bowman, a criminal mastermind. Now Pistachio must make the most of his inherited power in an attempt to track down Devilin and save his parents......What makes this obvious disaster the watchable mess that it is, is the fact that Carvey is genuinely putting his all into the film, and looking like he's at least trying to make something that's worth watching.It's the poor script, the really bad jokes, and the embarrassing looks from Brolin and Spiner that make the film the dog that it is. And as for the disguises, well the Robert Shaw one was okay, but the Turtle one? It just boggles the mind.Esposito is okay for what she is doing, but half the time she looks like she is ready to burst out laughing.It's not as bad as its notoriety suggests, but it's very poor indeed.Worth watching for Carvey trying to hold everything together. No wonder he never made another movie. "},{"Title":"Goofy Fun","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Admittedly, this is a utterly silly movie. However, I laughed my head off at Dana Carvey dressed as a turtle going into a night club, making turtle noises. It is a movie that perhaps needs a little laughing gas or good companionship to help you slip into its groove. Its humour is reminiscent of the Pink Panther scene, where Dreyfus and Clouseau, stoned on nitrous oxide, laugh at Dreyfus's melting face. It is a vehicle for Carvey to show off a parade of weird accents, mannerisms, and theatrical false teeth.The running joke is watching people react to Carvey, trying to figure out why he is behaving so bizarrely, but somehow intimidated by his insanity.I once read that the best way to get a row of seats to yourself in a plane is simply to chew on a piece of string and let it droop out the corner of your mouth.Forget you are a film critic. Let the kid in you enjoy this the way you enjoyed Jerry Lewis at the Saturday matinée. "},{"Title":"Hilarious bits shine through","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" My pre-teen kids loved the DVD edition of The Master of Disguise. I also laughed out loud during a number of scenes. Dana Carvey's Turtle Man disguise and performance is as good as any Peter Sellars turn; his homage to Robert Shaw's Captain Quint in Jaws should have been given a fuller platform; his invention of a high end, antique auction matron vis-a-vis Kate Hepburn and Hermoine Gingold and his send up of a David Niven espionage operative were spectacularly funny. A linear story with believable main characters and situations are not always a requirement for children but would have carried Carvey's talent in a much more enteraining fashion.That said, Harold Gould, James Brolin and Jennifer Esposito deserve, if one exists, the Screen Actors Guild version pf a Purple Heart. Each performed bravely and beautifully in an amiable and harmless mess which probably wounded their careers but was not of their making.I hope Mr. Carvey is forgiven and gets another shot at a full movie. "},{"Title":"A fun movie that doesn't take itself serious so why do you?","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The rating for this movie is much too low in my opinion! Of course there are some cheesy scenes! But overall it is very funny! Dana Carvey shows what a wonderful talent he is! His impersonation of Al Pacino in Scarface is just brilliant! (That particular scene I have watched over and over again!) So are all the other ones! Everybody who is in the movie are having a ball so how come most viewers didn't? This is a movie to make you laugh and that's all! Many reviewers call this a kids movie! Well most of the movie is slapstick so should appeal to children! But many scenes have double layers and are meant for adults! For example the Scarface parody sketch is lost on children since most them wouldn't know what that scene is about! How could they for that to grasp you have to have seen Scarface! Master of Disguise is full of these references! For a genuine movie lover it isn't hard to discover these references and for that reason this movie should get more credit than it did! This movie is very entertaining and fun! Give it a shot! "}{"Title":"Turtle Harm","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a very misunderstood movie - this is a KID'S FILM. Carvey made it for his kids. If you and bunch of buddies got ripped and went out he theatre to see it - yeah, I can see how you would be disappointed. It's not Austin Powers, it's not the Farrelly Brothers, it's not even Ivan Reitman. But my 7 year old and her friends LOVED it - and she has seen Keaton, Chaplin, the Marx Brothers, etc. and she adores them (and no, I am not comparing for a second Carvey to these legends but there is no way he deserves the crap he's getting for this film). The film is silly, flawed, badly edited but also has some very funny set pieces and some great throwaway dialogue (this is what you are doing, this is what I need you to do Turtle harm You are the conductor of the potty train, etc.) Fun for the kids. Plain and simple. But, jeez, compared to some Sandler or Schneider disasters, this film deserves better treatment from viewers. "},{"Title":"this is a comedy(if only it were funny)","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" in this Movie Dana Carvey hides his face behind many disguises.unfortunately someone also hid all the laughs,somewhere no one will likely find them.this is billed as a comedy,which is OK,but it's not funny.it's not even amusing.it is however,stupid in all the bad ways possible there are some talented actors in this movie,but i guess sometimes actors sign without reading the script,(or what passes for one,in this case)Dana Carvey certainly has some comedic talent,but aside from the two Wayne's World films,he hasn't has a chance to showcase it.i kinda felt sorry for all involved.it was truly embarrassing and painful to watch.i'd have to give Master Of Disguise 2/10 "},{"Title":"Review for Spiner Fans","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" For my purposes, this title gets a 8 out of 10. Five for the movie itself, an extra two points for Mr. Spiner's diamond blue eyes, and one for the set designer who had the presence of mind to arrange Spiner's character's color scheme around them. Everything around Devlin Bowman is blue and white and the effect is quite striking.The movie is a ninety minute fart joke. I'm not kidding.Harold Gould, by far and away, delivers the best overall performance in the movie (such as it is). Casting James Brolin in this movie was a definite stroke of completely ridiculous genius. Austin Wolff is, of course, adorable, and Dana Carvey's particular brand of multiple personality disorder is as entertaining as ever (I got a definite chuckle out of Mr. Peru).Like I said, the movie is a ninety minute fart joke and is quite clearly directed at males between the ages of eight and twelve. If you have a roomful of those kind of people and you'd like them to stop breaking things by playing baseball with the ceiling fan, this movie will at least put them all in one room and occupy them with disgusting noises for about an hour and a half. There's no swearing. The (incredibly) mild blue content is really tame and based on a cartoony visual gag, as is the violence. It's supposed to be a silly, sight gag based comedy and that's exactly what it is.As for Spiner (you knew I was getting to it); first of all, he's gorgeous. Like I said, the character's entire color scheme is a shade of electric blue that compliments his eyes to the point of being captivating. I was hitting the pause button just because I *had* to look. The jokes are (of course) at his character's expense (he *is* the bad guy, after all), and he, appropriately, rolls out his very best smarmy/irritated act (the one that stole Out To Sea right out from under two legends). It's amusing and relatively gentle right up until the climax of the movie, where he hits the crazy button and doesn't look back. Then it's just plain hilarious. In terms of Spiner-related content, I got exactly what I wanted out of this movie and just a little bit more.By the way, Classmates.com owes Spiner a big, wet kiss (trust me). "},{"Title":"Poor Mr Carvey...","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This film got a 1 out of 10... I would give it lower but the box doesn't let me...I was made to sit down and watch this film on a weekend... I could have used the time it was on to do something useful, like feed the homeless or rescue a puppy but NOOOO! I was made to sit through this pile of FILTH! FILTH I TELL YOU! FILTH! Dana Carvey's put on Italian accent is infuriating and the fact that the once mighty Garth of Waynes World is now Pistachio Disguise is terrible! The acting from EVERYONE in this film is terrible, the storyline is weaker and more helpless than an insect in a blender and the jokes are the height of immaturity and child like toilet humour. The Turtle Sketch is incredible.. When it comes to showing how unfunny this film is. Adam Sandlers production company has really got to be shaken up. If they thought this would be a good film then heaven help us if they want to make a second one or any other film along the same lines as this film.It was terrible. I'm almost frightened to say I liked Open Water more than this film... And I HATED Open Water. Please, please, please in the name of all the Aesir and Vanir. Stay away from this incoherent, never once comical drivel. If you want to see a Dana Carvey doing something funny, go watch Waynes World again. Please, avoid this film.AVOID! AVOID! AVOID! "},{"Title":"stop taking this movie so seriously","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" i am sick of all you people who are saying this is the worst movie ever or that is not funny. ITS A FRIGGIN KIDS MOVIE!!! if your gonna take a movie like this that seriously u shouldn't watch comedies.. or any other movie for that matter. it was for kids, it makes kids laugh, so thats all that matters. we need more good kid shows like this. i agree it wasn't my favorite Dana Carvey movie but thats not the point. to all of you that say this is the worst movie ever, obviously you've never seen Ghost Lake or Gili. now those are movies that deserve bad criticsm. leave the kids movies alone. there not meant to win Oscars or any other award, they're just meant to entertain kids and people with an open mind, which this movie does successfully. if your gonna see this movie, i recommend that you have one or the other. just stop giving it such negative feedback. all it does is make you sound like an idiot for dissing a movie,or watching a movie for that matter, meant for eight year old's. And to all of you who honestly thought is was a movie for older people and thought it would have adult humor how damn stupid can you be. what in the previews or trailers made it sound adult, was it the slapping machine, the turtle scene, the meant-to-be-fake Italian accent, because all those things just scream PG-13. dumbasses. this may seem a little harsh and rude, but from what i've read about this movie and the harsh criticism its been getting, you all deserve it. "},{"Title":"It's a funny movie.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought I should comment as this movie is severely underrated. I just saw it on TV recently and found myself laughing quite a bit. It's clean comedy, so it's not as offensive or edgy as most, but the jokes are funny, and the performances are good. Brent Spiner is quite hilarious as the flatulant evil dude, and Dana Carvy is hilarious at ... well ... being Dana Carvy. I always liked Dana Carvy and always enjoy seeing his impersonations and comedy routines. I felt like they played it a little too safe though. I'd like to see him and Mike Meyers together again. Maybe Austin Powers vs the Master of Disguise or something where they can both play a lot of roles. Sure Austin Powers is much funnier than this, but it's for adults and is allowed be edgier so it's not exactly a fair comparison. I'd like to see Dana Carvy do something a bit edgier. But for now, this film is a humorous way to spend time with the family.  "},{"Title":"What are you expecting?","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I found this movie quite enjoyable, and certainly not deserving of the 3 point whatever rating it has. I don't know what most of the voters were expecting, it was obviously a family movie, and I appreciated that. There was no graphic violence, just some slapping, nor were there any sex references, nor any inappropriate jokes (the flatulence jokes were a bit overdone). The movie was humorous, nothing gut busting, but it had enough funny parts to keep me smiling or chuckling the whole time. There were no real lulls or low points, just a nice even keel.This movie is middle of the road. I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A sometimes lame kid's movie, yes.  But one of the worst films ever?  Never...!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I consider myself a film buff, I write professionally, although only on rare occasions do film reviews, so I feel I have a few more credentials than your average armchair IMDB critic.  All that said, I have never seen such intensely horrible IMDB reviews (e.g. `the worst ever') for a movie that actually wasn't that bad.  Its no great work of art, but I actually enjoyed watching it through adolescent eyes.  It's was intended as a kid's movie for Christ's sake&#133;!  Its supposed to be stupid with goofy repetitive gags and lame humor.  But done with a good wink and a nod, if anybody was watching.  People saw Dana Carvey's name on the label, thought it was going to be the next Wayne's World or whatever, and were disappointed when it wasn't.  But Dana's charm is there in spades, I loved all the characters he created in this senseless little movie, and the story actually wasn't much lamer or thin than Wayne's World's 1 or 2 &#150; if you want to complain about plot within comedy skit-driven movies.Its also pretty obvious from the brevity of the film (only 65 minutes of movie), and the fact that a heap of scenes in the 15 minutes of end-credit outtakes are not in the film, that this flick is an abbreviated version of what Carvey and director Blake originally intended.  Who knows what were the reasons, but I'll bet even money that some cost overrun, studio intervention or other problem resulted in at least a third of this film winding-up on the cutting room floor.  Before watching this movie, just put yourself in the same mind frame as `Spy Kids', but without all the big budget special effects, gadgets and elaborate sets, and you'll probably have a much better chance of enjoying what you see.  I can see why some folks might only give this movie a 4 or 5 (out of 10), but one of the worst films ever?  Never&#133;!  "},{"Title":"No way is this worthy of being in bottom 100","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"       I am surprised by the vitriol this movie is getting. It was very humorous to me. The people giving it 1's to 4's just don't know what truly bad is. I am 48 so I can say I've probably seen a lot more bad movies than most and this does not deserve that label. Sure the direction and plot could have been better, but I could say that about a lot of movies.      I have had my cable disconnected for about 8 years so I did not know Jennifer Esposito before seeing her in this movie. I liked her so much I looked her up in IMDB to see what else she had done.      I got the DVD(after the price was reduced) and learned that they had thought of making The Cuteness the grandfather in disguise. I am glad that impossible nonsense was cut, It would have cut my rating by 2 points.      My rating 7. "},{"Title":"Adults will laugh, but it's for kids","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  A lot of people were kind of thrown by this move, they claim it was a waste of their time, etc.  They were expecting the old Dana Carvey from Saturday Night Live, or Wayne's World.  But this movie isn't really for those people, it's for the kids.  Like many childrens films these days there are jokes and references that only the older audience will appreciate, but overall the film is for you little ones.  And they love it.  I saw Carvey do an interview around the time of the release and he said he wanted to do a movie for his kids.  He felt that all of the stuff he had done in the past he really didn't want kids to see, until they were older. My nephews and all of their friends love Master of Disguise and watch it all the time.  Their constant impressions of the turtle guy and the slapping dummy midget get annoying sometimes, but they enjoy it.  While it is a kid flick, there are plenty of jokes that adults will enjoy, as this is a film that highlights his ability to do impressions.  Impressions of Pacino in Scarface, Quint the guy from Jaws, Bob Ross, George W. Bush, and others are very funny.  I see it as a kid flick I can watch with kids and actually be entertained a bit. "}{"Title":"A rib tickler for the goof troops!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok honestly, it really wasn't what i would call a block buster hit or a million dollar sizzler, but come on it hits a funny nerve after a while. I'm very goofy and i actually liked the movie. As a matter of fact i always tune in when it comes on the popular movie channels. My little sister hates it, but it has some funny parts to me. Like i said its ridiculous, but its funny. Come on, if hollywood makes all the same action-packed, scarey, dramatic,romantic comedy tear jerkers all the time nobody would be thrilled to keep watching the same kinds of movies with similar parts from before? I love diffrent movies. Need i add that i'm also a fan of some of austin powers work!!!!!bye. "},{"Title":"funny, dont believe the bone heads","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think it's funny that people here that are knocking this film, would probably laugh at dopey movies like Jim Carrey does.  Stuff Karl Childers (sling blade) would enjoy watching saturday morning cartoons. It's not stupid comedy.   I think the ones who dislike this one expect dumb slapstick comedy rather than the kind that Carvey delivers here. I rated it a 6. Not the best I've seen but certainly does not deserve the insulting 1 votes here. Give it a try and don't believe the bone heads. "},{"Title":"A Kids movie","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The first thing I have to say is that this is a kids movie.  A kids movie, a kids movie a kids movie.  It's made for children, and chances are, if you don't like it, it's probably because your not a kid.  I babysat a 7 year old, and watched this movie, and I thought it was kinda cute for a kids movie, and she thought it was pretty silly.  Now as an adult I thought parts of it where just dumb, but then again, I'm not a kid.  The kids I've talked to seemed to like it, and even I liked some parts.  I thought Dana Carvey did a good job with all those voices.  Now before you see it, you must realize, it's a silly kids movie, and it has some toliet humor in it.  If you don't like silly movies, or kids movies, or movies with toliet humor in it, don't watch it.  But if not, then this movie is ok.  I gave it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"In Fairness...","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Fine fine fine, ok... if you want to trash this movie go ahead. But I think the people who are trashing Master of Disguise went into the theater expecting latenight SNL humor that, if you were watching in the late 80's and early 90's, wasn't always kiddie material.Master of Disguise is just about FUN - and in that it excels because the level of fun is for kids. I enjoyed the film, and still enjoy being cutely-irritating to my girlfriend by quoting the film, possibly because I'm incredibly immature - but also possibly because I'm dynamic enough to appreciate multiple levels of humor. Dana Carvey did a great job on this project and I would love to see him do more, but with the 25-35 audience in mind this time ) "},{"Title":"It has its moments....","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, not the best movie on the face of the planet.  Being a Dana Carvey fan helps when viewing this movie.  The characters he portrays are very creative and serve the purpose they are created for - to showcase Carvey's ability to impersonate and personify other people and characters.  The best one is of course the Turtle Man, who for those renting the DVD, is used more in order to introduce the deleted scenes.The script itself, well, even the talent of Carvey couldn't disguise how lame it was for the most part.  There seems to be little connections between scenes, and they waited too long into the movie before Dana's character started with disguising himself, which slowed everything down right from the start.If you like Carvey, at least give it a watch, because it is entertaining if you let it be. "},{"Title":"Totally, literally, and utterly HORRID","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I would like to start off by saying that 'stupid funny' is what I'm all about. I absolutely LOVED Austin Powers and all the other stupidly funny movies I can get my hands on. One of my floor mates rented The Master of Disguise and at times I wanted to heave my shoe at the TV. Parts made all so familiar in the trailers such as Dana repeating over and over and over again Turtle, Turtle was one such instance. Yet another would have to be him saying, I want to be a master of disguise. If I had any doubts of how unoriginal and untalented Dana Carvey was, I have none now. I will make it a point to avoid ALL of his movies. I just wish he hadn't dragged 'Data' down with Dana, however he DID make a couple of parts in the movie laughable... Avoid this movie at all costs. If you are like me you will want to scream and stop watching it. If I was by myself and rented this movie on some way-way-way-outside chance I would have turned it off right after the Turtle, Turtle part no doubt. "},{"Title":"You Have got to Be Kidding Me","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why are people allowed to make movies like this?Yawn.Yawn.Yawn.I wish I could think about any redemptive element.  I can't.Absolute yawn. "},{"Title":"Let us never speak of this again.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Master of Disguise crosses the thin line between stupid-funny and just plain stupid. I laughed twice, and I had to force myself to laugh.Dana Carvey's impressions were perfect, but in no way hilarious. Even the turtle-turtle scene ended up being overdone.Then there are the fart jokes. As if the movie wasn't lame enough, they had to make the bad guy some dude with a lot of gas. It's been done. It's been done MANY times. It's not funny anymore. I kept praying that it would stop, but they had to insist on butchering this movie with the farts.The trailers were very amusing. I guess that's why they call it the Master of Disguise. It disguised itself as a funny movie. Kids will find this movie hilarious. YOUNG kids. If you are above the age of 8, this movie is not for you. I think my IQ may have been lowered by watching this movie. It's not worth spending time or money on. If you happen to see it on cable, and you find there is absolutely nothing else on that is remotely interesting, I suggest you read a book. I'm sorry Dana. Even the best of us have misfires. This was yours. 1/10.  "},{"Title":"Car Crash Comedy - Go see it! -)","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Go see The Master Of Disguise, the new film staring Dana Carvey (Garth from Wayne's World). It's best if you take a kid with you aged between 6 and 10yrs. Any younger and they won't quite get it... Any older and they'll be horrified!! But in the middle, they'll just laugh their socks off and quote all the disgracefully unfunny lines until they're sick (or you are!!)Just got back from seeing it with my daughter Sally - she has bellyache from laughing so much, and me and her dad were laughing a LOT too. Just not for the same reasons. It's delightfully crap, and in ALL seriousness, the very best bit is the end credits. No, really!  The final credits sequence contains some funny bits and pieces either not in the film or specially made for the credits, of the actors goofing about in a very embarrassing way. A kind of 'Something About Mary' style combo of out-takes and stuff. It's cut much snappier than the rest of the film, which was never gonna be American Beauty, but which suffers terribly from half-arsed direction and bad editing to give a very sluggish, embarrassingly badly timed, only-for-the-kids comedy film.It's gonna be famous though. Just probably not in a good way. Already touted as the Worst Film EVER Made, the critics are having a ball going on and on about Dana Carvey trying to be Mike Myers, and it being a vanity project. This is a little unfair. I don't think Carvey was trying to do that at all with this film, I think he just wanted to make a goofy comedy for kids, and it succeeds as that, if my 8 year old daughter Sally is anything to go by.It's not a good film by any stretch. It's a very very bad film. But kids will love it, and adults will just LOVE to see how very BAD it really is!! However, nowhere near the Worst film ever made. It's better than Forget Paris. Better than The Avengers. And at least as good as Howard the Duck! -DI reckon the Vanity Project bandwagon that most critics have latched onto is just a little harsh. Carvey was on the right track here, but fell prey to bad editing and directing. The film needed pace and timing to pep up the obvious comedy enough to make the mums and dads enjoy it as much as the kids. It's very physical, goofy and embarrassingly puerile in places - just right for 6 to 10 yr olds who love Mr Bean, Emu and The Chuckle Brothers. Dana Carvey is harmless and unthreatening, but a long long way from cool. Kids will be fine with this - they aren't as judgemental as us grown-ups - but the critics will (are) have an absolute ball ripping it to shreds. I just wanted to redress the balance a bit, and maybe Dana Carvey will have the sense to draft me in on his next film to pep up the pace for him!Personally, it was great to take my daughter to a silly, goofy, old-fashioned, funny movie without worries about overt violence or sexual references, and she had an absolute whale of a time. I too really enjoyed screeching at the bad bits in a kind of Plan 9 From Outer Space frame of mind.Brent Spiner (Mr Data from Star TrekThe Next Generation) is perfectly awful. Truly. In a good way, though, and he's obviously got the crap comedy villain market covered. Fair play to him - someone has to do it, and it's nice that it's not some Englishman Cliché for once. I just hope he can laugh at himself there. A lot. A very lot.Just go see it. It's Car Crash Comedy! It has to be seen to be believed.Miss Gossage - Connoisseur of Very Bad Films!  "},{"Title":"Simple-minded disappointment","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I got dragged along to this film by my children - 7 and 9 years old. They seemed to enjoy the fart gag and some of the characterisations. However, for an adult viewer the humour is lame and most of the gags can be seen coming well before they arrive.Some of the characters portrayed would be well over the heads of the target audience of children - how many would have seen Scarface, for instance? Or understand the references to Bo Derek?The running gag about the males of the family being besotted with fat-bottomed women is also puzzling.This is a quite short film - the lengthy gag reel over the closing credits shows numerous deleted scenes. Perhaps their inclusion might at least have provided a few more gags for your dollar. Then again, why prolong the agony?Next time kids, I choose the film. "}{"Title":"The truly sad thing about it is...","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" ...I actually enjoyed the movie. I've always been a fan of Dana Carvey's, but as a general rule, I prefer his more...'realistic'...films. Namely, I liked 'Opportunity Knocks'. (So sue me, I'm a child of the '80s.) But while this movie had no storyline, no plot, and no really redeeming qualities, I actually got a laugh out of it. I went into this movie expecting cheesy schlock...y'know, like 'The Animal', 'Little Nicky', 'Wayne's World', etc. Not bad, per se, just would never win an academy award. This movie was the cheesiest of the cheesy. But Carvey's character was just so irritatingly cute in some areas, that I couldn't help but laugh.I would never add this movie to a collection, nor would I go out of my way to watch it again...it falls into the 'Zoolander' category of 'well, I saw it, it was kind of neat, but...I'd rather have bridge work without anaesthesia' category...but I did enjoy the one and only time I ever saw it. Probably because my expectations were so...I was pleased to find there was a little comedy in this movie.Ah, well...back to the slice 'em and dice 'em horrors that keep my interest these days. Star rating? Well, Dana Carvey gives it a two. ;) "},{"Title":"WORST.......MOVIE........EVER!!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I wish someone had warned me that this was a kids movie...and that I would better spend the time gouging my eyes out then watching this crap. There were no jokes. None! The accents were terrible, the acting even worse, and the repeated fart joke had the children around me in hysterics but really didn't cut the cheese for me, so to speak.The opening scene with Bo Derek was funny and boded well, but I should have left as soon as the scene ended. Don't waste your time on this movie, and don't reduce your children to this level, there are better, cleverer, FUNNIER films for children out there. "},{"Title":"If you hate Dana Carvey, you'll love this movie","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I never thought I would walk out of a Dana Carvey movie.I anxiously awaited the release of this movie, because I am a Carvey fan. I mourned his departure from SNL, and I like his movies, regardless of their goofiness (Opportunity Knocks, Clean Slate, etc.) because his talent is showcased.  With this fetid piece of tripe (a nod to MST3K, a show on which this movie would probably feel at home), he has nailed shut the coffin of his career.  A cameo appearance by Carrot Top would have lent an air of dignity to the movie, but alas, we are not so blessed.  This film will do for his career what murdering your wife and her friend does to a football legend.  I kid you not.I will definitely think twice about seeing another Dana movie, if this is the sort of script that he accepts.To emphasize the crappiness of this movie, I will reiterate that I have walked out on exactly 3 movies in my life, and I sat through Twister and Road Trip. "},{"Title":"Um..no.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My airplane showed this movie during a long flight.  So was it funny? To determine whether it was funny or not, please take a look at the following questions.Are you above age 4? Do you like to be entertained? Do you like even remotely good movies? Are you known to buy films that are humorous? Do you like to laugh? Do you dislike extremely lame humor?If you answered 'no' to any of the above questions; then this movie is for you!  Go out and buy it right now!  Actually, I think that even kids under 4 have SOME sort of sense of humor- maybe that question doesn't qualify.The film is SO bad. Embarassingly and extremely unfunny disney-esque garbage.  Bleh.  Get your wisdom teeth removed instead- it's ten times as fun, and it's also less time-consuming.  I pity the fool who rents it. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  Although I am a big Dana Carvey fan, I could not stand this film at all.  It was very, very poorly written.  The plot was horrible and there were many times in the film that I actually couldn't believe what I was seeing it was so bad.  It seemed to me that the final script should have been rough 1st draft at best.  I don't suggest seeing this film at all, its not funny and there isn't a good story at all. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is just plain bad. I am a former fan of Carvey, and I usually enjoy movies that are pretty simple minded, but this movie left me feeling angry and cheated.  The humor in this movie is so bad and out-dated that even little children will be bored by it.  It might have been a little funnier back in the early 90s, with such over-used phrases like whose your daddy and frequent fart jokes, but they just aren't funny nowadays. The movie lacked any sort of coherency or point--it seemed to be a mishmash of unfunny spoofs and take-offs of various well known movies, many of which the target audience probably hasn't seen yet.  This movie seemed to be an excuse for Carvey to show off his impersonations.  They were funny on SNL, but they just don't work on the screen.  He says that he designed the movie cause he thought his kids would like it, but that's the problem, HIS kids are the only ones who will probably really enjoy this.  This movie seemed to be one big inside joke, and a bad one at that.  Plus, the shameless inclusion of well known celebrities was pointless.  At least the Austin Powers films actually put famous celebrities to good use.  I will say that without a doubt this is the worst movie of the year.  I don't recommend this movie to anyone, even if you are a Carvey fan. "},{"Title":"Maybe the Worst Big Studio Comedy Ever","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have just returned from taking my seven year old to see this movie, and I am still numb from the experience.  The only thing worth saying about this pile of dreck is that it is the embodiment of everything that is wrong with big studio comedies today times two hundred.  After five minutes, I was stunned at how poorly paced, acted, written, directed, shot, and even lit this turkey was.  After an hour, I was just sad.  My mind started wandering to all the other things that could have been done with the money and effort wasted on this complete travesty. To excuse the inanity of this movie by saying it's a kid's film is an insult to the intelligence and wit of children everywhere.  To downplay the utter creative failure this movie represents by noting that it turned a profit is too cynical to fathom.  This is, quite simply, one of the worst movies ever made.  Period.  Dana Carvey, Adam Sandler, I want you to give me back the ninety minutes of my life I wasted watching your movie.     "},{"Title":"See a Saturday matinee with lots of kids!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Master of Disguise was a great kid's flick. You'll enjoy it more if there are lots of kids in the audience to help get you laughing at some of the silly humor. The gags are funny and the humor is clean. "},{"Title":"SIMPLE FUN","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Master of Disguise is not the greatest movie that was ever made, but its not that bad either. It is nice to see a movie that doesn't have to rely on profanity to carry the day. The plot is thin and is really secondary to the humor provided by Carvey and the cast(especially Brent Spiner and veteran actor Harold Gould). If you have not seen this movie be warned If you are going to see a spectacular comedy in the Austin Powers/Men in Black mode, that is not what you will get. If you want to see a movie that has some good laughs and some interesting cameos, this is it. The humor was interesting and mostly funny(though I thought the farting bit of the Spiner character went a little too far). I do think the kids will enjoy this movie and so will Dana Carvey fans!! "},{"Title":"My nine-year-old loved it; what else do you want!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is not A Beautiful Mind but with Carvey who would think it is. My nine-year-old grandson laughed almost uncontrolably all through the movie. I enjoyed that very much! Enjoyed the movie moderately. It's an on-target market for its intended audience and a lot of fun. Expectations are everything. I give it a 6. "}{"Title":"This is a kids movie","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  First and foremost people have to understand that Dana Carvey made this movie for his kids and for them alone pretty much.  I saw him on David Letterman and he explained that one day his kids found a bunch of his SNL, magazine, Wayne's World stuff, etc. in their basement and were like Dad, why didn't you tell us you were famous?  Then he realized that he has never done anything that he would really want his kids to watch at their age (I think they are like 5 and 7), so he made this movie.  So to the other reviewers who don't think this is a kids a movie, not only it is so, but its a Dana Carvey's kids movie.  Its a couple of laughs, but probably not worth the $7 to see it in theatres.  I took my 10 year old brother to see it and he loved it.  Jennifer Epositzo is hot too, we need her in more films! "},{"Title":"What are you idiots smoking?","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This has to be Dana Carvey's best work since Wayne's World. My brother and I have just seen it and we were cracking up at every turn. Each of his disguises(especially the Turtle, Terry Suave and Quinn from Jaws) For those of you who listened to the other reviews, here the truth (Spoilers Ahead) Dana Carvey plays Pistachio, the son of a restaurant owner. What He doesn't know, is that his father is a Master of Disguise. One day, an old enemy that his father p****d off kidnaps his parents, Pistachio must try to save them. His Grandfather arrives and teaches him his heritage as a Master of Disguise, and teams him with an assistant named Jennifer. The two track down the villain, while Pistachio uses a variety of disguises to save the day. So take it from someone that's seen a lot of comedies. If you like movies like Wayne's World, you'll love this movie "},{"Title":"Definitely a film made for small children.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Being a huge fan of Dana Carvey, I just had to go out and see this movie.  I wasn't terribly impressed with the trailers, but I just had to see this to support Dana nonetheless.The film is most definitely a kids movie.  The story is very silly and VERY bizarre at times.  Overall though, Dana Carvey does a fine job.  Some of the humor is right on, and just hilarious, but at other times it really isn't that funny (but maybe it is to a kid, I don't know, I'm not a kid).  Some of the jokes struck me as very odd, here's an example  There's a scene where Dana Carvey is blatantly parodying Al Pacino in Scarface.  It's actually quite a funny scene, and he does it quite well, but I can't imagine ANY kids of today have seen Scarface, and I hope they haven't.  I myself just recently saw the film.  So, jokes like that really struck me as odd.All the cast members did a fine job.  Dana Carvey does what he does, and does it quite well.  I think Jennifer Esposito is reason enough to sit through this movie.  She looks absolutely fantastic in this film!  The instant her face is shown on the screen, my jaw hit the floor, she has NEVER looked better!  I was happy to see Brent Spiner (aka Data of Star Trek) in the film.  I've always liked his acting, and he did a fine job in this film.  One other notable thing is the slew of cameo's in this film.  I won't mention any of them though, I wouldn't want to take away the surprise.If you like silly children's movies or just like Dana Carvey or any of the other cast members, then you should go ahead and check this out.  If you didn't like what you saw in the trailers, I don't think there is any way you are going to like the film.  Anyhow, I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you think","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sure, the trailers showed all the best parts, but that doesn't mean they weren't funny in the movie itself!*Possible spoilers*-(if it matters that much to you)For example, the Turtle Guy was absolutely hilarious, I couldn't stop laughing, even though I've seen it on TV a million times. His Tony Montana was good, but I would've liked to seen more of Gammy Num Nums or that 19th century-like toy guy from the end credits.There's a lot of filler and pointless story, but hey, isn't summer the season for cheap laughs and cheap thrills?  "},{"Title":"Probably the worst film this year.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  1/2Starring Dana Carvey, Jennifer Esposito, Brent Spiner, and James Brolin.After separating from the comedic duo of Wayne and Garth from Wayne's World, Mike Myers is getting most of the luck in the movie department.  Dana Carvey is getting so much bad luck, and this movie is definitely not helping his movie career.  The film is about an Italian waiter named Pistachio Disguisey (and if you think that funny names are still funny, this may possibly make you grin.  But I dislike funny names) who just figures out that he comes from a long line of Master of Disguises.  After his father was kidnapped, it is up to Pistachio and his sidekick to save the day.  The movie is rather stupid and completely unfunny.  I don't know why anyone but a kid would want to see this.  Please, for the love of God, don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"The end of Dana Carvey?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sadly, this is the moment in Dana Carvey's  life where he should just call it quits. There  is no more Wayne's World to save him, for  this is what he has turned into. A ridiculously  short film with little redeeming qualities, this  film proved to be nothing but a short excursion  from the routines of daily life. While some jokes  were funny and all, the rest of the film proved  to be one big guffaw. Take the kids to watch  this movie, but be sure to bring a book and a  light or something to keep yourself busy. Sadly,  after all of the bad luck in Dana Carvey's life,  he had to try and resuscitate his career with  this flop. Hopefully, he can recover from this. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but somewhat slow","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Many people went in to this movie expecting too much, and were obviously disappointed (you can learn a moral from that). If you do this, how could you ever expect a movie to live up to your expectations, doesn't seem fair.This movie was funny in many places, although it was rather slow in the beginning.There are many references adults would even enjoy.  This is not Dana Carvey's best work, but it's not a waste (if you wanna go cheap, see it during a matinee). "},{"Title":"Comedy will never be the same.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My initial impressions of Master of Disguise were those of disgust and, frankly,  non-interest.  Yet,  I found myself in the movie theatre opening night,  captivated by the genius of Dana Carvey (who after appearing in this role,  will probably be in high demand for more prestigious,  academy award worthy roles).  The film I saw could be just a precursor to something more magnificent,  because I hate to say that this is the pinnacle of Dana Carvey's career.  For this well-known comedy actor,  the highest respect has come a rough path of sketch comedy on SNL and the much loved Waynes World films.  Most successful comedy actors rarely get this opportunity in their careers,  and Carvey will more than definitely ride this phenomena of success from Master of Disguise to fame.  If you are unfamiliar with the film and would like to be surprised,  then don't read below here because this section may contain spoilers and give away much of the intricate plot (reminiscent of great works like Chinatown or the Big Lebowski).Pistachio Disguisey is a professional assassin named Leon.  Leon is an adroit mercenary,  able to take on several deadly thugs at one time.  As skilled as Leon is,  his achilles heal is amiable nature,  which jeopardizes his ability to accomplish the one task that has haunted him throughout his life  to kill the drug cartel leader responsible for the death of his pet goldfish,  Walnut.  Throughout the film,  Leon's gregarious nature and ability to fit in at parties blindly negates his motivation to take care of this one thing,  and that is why movie is so long. The film,  if my watch isn't mistaken,  came slightly in under three hours.  The disguises have no practical application other than to amuse the children,  which is the only disappointing thing;  it is tiring to see Hollywood exploit it's focus groups to the point where it is blatantly obvious, especially on a film that might be an Oscar contender.  There are some loveable characters in the film like Darryl the blind Tupperware salesman,  the irate overweight housewife, and the notorious heroin addict police officer most deservingly named Neddy Needles.  The violence is mostly tongue and cheek,  however,  it must be said that it may be inappropriate for the younger children.It's a rare treat that such a fine film comes to theatres on major release and not just to art house movie theatres in larger cities.  I recommend seeing this film at least three times just because it makes so much more sense after many viewings.  My judgment  9 out of 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Very Bad, just to be nice...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie where Dana can make great impersonations but can not make a movie from it. Mike Myers (close friend of Dana Carvey) can be real creative with his characters, but Dana needs a lot of work to catch the speed of Mr. Myers. The kids had a few laughs but I didn't find anything funny. overall 2/10 "},{"Title":"visually appealing but devoid of substance","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Every gag is done a few too many times. The actors, other than Carvey himself, look embarrassed to be in the picture. And the plot and dialogue are inane. However, if you're going to watch with the sound off, it's really pretty with lots of bright colors and fancy sets and costumes. Take your 4-year-old. He will appreciate the visual masterpieces and the bad gags. And the more mature jokes will fly over his head...and hopefully not hit you in the face with more pain than you can endure. "}{"Title":"Dumb. Don't go!  Might give away some of the details, so don't read if you have not seen it yet!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was quite excited to see this movie, as I really like Dana Carvey's work on SNL.  But this movie over all was a real disappointment.  What is the story exactly?  There are some funny moments, but there is a lot of garbage stuff in between them.  The best part of the movie as far as I am concerned was after the credits started.  Only then did I get to see what attracted me to the movie in the first place, seeing Dana in the different disguises he did, and some that I don't actually remember seeing in the film.  The ones they show on the commercial are not that funny when put into the actual movie.  Unfortunately, most people get up and leave when the credits start because they assume the movie is over.  In most movies the movie is over when the credits start.  Here, there was another 10 minutes of footage after the credits!  But the plot is stupid, and in the role of Pistacio or whatever, Dana's accent is so fake.  It started feeling kind of like a warm and fuzzy Disney movie in the beginning, but then it just goes into Dana's character constantly acting like a jerk.  And as for Brent Spiner's characters running gag, it dulls quickly.  I would not recommend this one to anyone, save your money.  And to Dana, this is not your usual calibre of effort, what gives? "},{"Title":"STINKER!!!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  2nd movie in my life I've walked out on in the middle and I've seen some really bad ones.   Usually even a bad movie has at least one redeeming feature, one scene, one performance worth taking pity on and saying, Nice Try!.  Osama Bin Laden should be tied to a chair, have his eyelids surgically removed, and forced to watch this for the rest of eternity. "},{"Title":"A family movie, and I pity you parents.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Both my wife and I went to this movie thinking sure it's a kids movie but that doesn't mean it can't be a neat experience. Unfortunately the only joke that my wife and I laughed at was an abortive fart joke. The reason we laughed? The look on Brent Spinner's face that I'm not sure should have been left in the movie.As a family movie it is probably pretty good, but should have been direct to video where you parents can at least sit in the next room. "},{"Title":"Master Of Disguise","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Dana Carvey is capable of comic genius, and his many impersonations in this movie provide a few laughs, but the movie itself is rather disappointing.  The script is threadbare and not near as inventive as the many disguises Carvey inhabits.  The whole movie feels suspiciously stitched-together and it's a good bet that a lot of material hit the cutting-room floor (a suspicion further enhanced by the short running time; it clocks in at just over 80 minutes, with a good 10 of those stretched out over the end credits with various outtakes and bloopers).  There are moments of inspired lunacy here and Carvey is to be commended for attempting to make the movie suitable for all age groups, but if he'd spent just a bit more time on his script, he might have found himself with a lucrative franchise ala his former SNL and Wayne's World buddy Mike Myers.  Hopefully next time out he will connect with a script worthy of his considerable talents.  TURTLE TURTLE!!  My rating  ** stars   "},{"Title":"Lots of Silliness - But, what else?","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Genre was listed as `Children's Comedy' . Boy, they ain't whistlin' Dixie!  My 5 year old granddaughter got a big kick out of it and laughed through most of it.  What made her laugh the most were the fart sounds (and me, too, unfortunately).It wasn't the worst movie in the world, but it could have been much better. The main problem, it seems to me, is that they seemed to allow Dana Carvey to simply ad lib almost throughout the film.  People like Carvey, Robin Williams (when he's doing comedy) and Jim Carrey need to be restrained somewhat by a more cohesive script or plan.  They wear you out after awhile! Carvey didn't shut up throughout the whole movie.  His approach seems to just be silly for about 95 minutes (lots more because a lot seemed to have been cut).  It's like throwing stuff on the wall to see what sticks.There were some funny moments and Dana Carvey is talented, after all.  I'm just saying that the film could have been of much better quality if it were better scripted and controlled. I'm not saying Carvey should be stifled. But the writers (Carvey and another guy) and producers (Adam Sandler - one of 2 executive producers) need to develop a better format, not just let a comedian run wild.There were a lot of comedic situations and much silliness.  The question is, do you want quality humor or simply quantity?   "},{"Title":"some premise, no promise","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I wanted so badly for this to be a movie with some enriched semblance of soul. Something substantive to say -yeah that's a good story, and a film that cohesively weaves Carveys talents into an entertainment for kids (PG). Unfortunately by the Bo Derrick cameo (what kid of 8 would relate to that, and what would a parent tell a kid of 8 how they related to Bo-D's 10 poster? It could be funny but lacked any follow through and unity, despite the 1979 reference) followed by the never ending slapping, slapping, slapping that ran throughout the film - I felt something was amiss followed by compounding disappointment.----------------- In brief Disappointed that the Disquisiey family setting lacked warmth and believability, disappointed in the one dimensionality of all the female characters (you disgust me said grandpa D to Pistachio's assistant after she asks about her new jobs benefits), and the tenets that seeing Carvey gaze into space after being dope slapped (yet another time) is enough to make me believe that this is acceptable because he plays it cute, and in the big picture -substantive enough to carry the thinning story line to its blunt and anti climactic end.---------------- The theater I went to had about 35 to 50 suburban (Colma CA.) kids (ages 7 to 13) in it and the only laughs came from the predictable fart's that the bad guy let go from his own jokes, and excitement (and these laughs were slow in coming i.e., four fart's in).  Other wise the theater sat silently.-------------- I'm going to like to think that the outcome of this production this is not reflective of Carveys innate talent, but perhaps it is the result of having been surrounded by a few too many yes men, and women when putting this one together. -------------- "},{"Title":"Remember when Dana Carvey was funny?","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is sad.  So sad.  What happens when talented people lose their way?  Even Dana doesn't seem to believe in this material. This pathetic attempt at humor is one giant Ouch, babe! Quite possibly the worst piece of film since we turned the calendar on 2000.   "},{"Title":"What a Terrible Dana Carvey Flick","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm a Big fan of Dana..But this has to be the worst movie Ive ever seen....if u exclude Country Bears of course....I wouldnt reccomend any one to watch this movie....spend your time more wisely...go see Signs...or Goldmember was at least slightly more humorous....If you want to laugh at master of disguise...JUST WATCH THE TRAILER! ITs all there.... "},{"Title":"Don't even think about watching this movie!","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I would rate this movie with a zero if IMDb would allow it. The words in my vocabulary cannot adequately describe how bad this movie is. I can't believe that after reading the script, any actors or filmmakers could actually believe that a movie like this would benefit their career. Dana Carvey's career has hit rock-bottom. He should just sit back and enjoy his income from Wayne's World, and never make another movie. This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen. I'm going to repeat that, because it bears repeating... THIS IS BY FAR THE WORST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN! I want that hour and a half of my life back, and I hope to God that Hollywood will never allow this to happen again! "},{"Title":"The Worst F***ing Movie Ever","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The Master of Disguise was awful. Awful is putting it lightly. There is not a single word in the English dictionary to describe how bad this movie was. Dana Carvey please never star in another movie again, just throw in the towel. Perry Andelin Blake please never direct another movie as long as you live. Honestly I'm contemplating suing Mr. Blake for wasting 1 1/2 hours of my life. Your last hit movie was ten years ago (Happy Glimore). The Master of Disguise was a waste of money. Wasn't funny at all. The only joke that was semi funny was the turtle joke which I saw in the previews. Consider this your warning, don't waste your time or your money on The Master of Disguise. "}{"Title":"A sad misfortune on Carvey; possibly the end of his career.","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" When Dana Carvey came out with this movie, it failed. It failed quite badly with some jokes but the movie couldn't handle and balance its seriousness with its silliness. Dana Carvey just got a tough break here. I believe it's the director fault on this one... Or not. This is the end of Dana Carvey.Dana Carvey stars as a man named Pistachio. His father owns an Italian restaurant and he waits there as his job. Life is weird for him as he is a weird man. Then his parents get kidnapped so his grandfather must teach him how to become a Master of Disguise, an art passed down in their family. The crap adventure begins.For some weird reason, this movie reminds me of National Treasure some how and that is how I ended up writing this review at this exact time. The cinematography and editing seemed similar somehow; it just clicks in my head that the two resemble each other.Overall, a sad day for Dana Carvey as this movie is on the Bottom 100. It just makes you feel bad for him. The movie is too silly and not even kids could be seen laughing as much as you'd expect. Some good jokes and antics including the villain laughing and farting and the turtle costume but other than that, this movie was pretty damn bad. It's sad to see this happen but the days of Wayne's World have passed us.My Rating 3/10Eliason A. "},{"Title":"Did you see the previews?  No need to see the movie.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I admit, even in the previews this did not look like a masterpiece, but it looked pretty funny.  I still enjoy the This is what you're doing...this is what I want you to do joke.  To put it simply, this is pure stupidity.  Now, Dana Carvey is a talented comedian.  He was hilarious on SNL and he used to be hilarious altogether.  Is he really gonna depend on this dopey movie to make a comeback?  Dana is best known for his excellent impressions, especially of political figures like George Bush and Ross Perot.  So basically the script (which he co-wrote) enables him to flaunt his abilities as a great impressionist.  His impressions are great all right.  He just doesn't know where to go with them.  In one scene, he does a perfect impression of Al Pacino as Scarface.  That could've been a hilarious scene, but instead he breaks into the same mindless schtick.  How 'bout he says You cockroach! or Say hello to my little friend?  Every joke, no matter how silly, has to be based on an element of truth.  There are many other mindless bits like the Turtle scene.  In the previews, it looked pretty funny.  But in the movie it drags out into a boring, 5-minute scene in which he basically goes around blurting out the word Turtle.  That's the whole joke.  When Dana is trained to fight from his grandfather, he teaches him to slap people and say, Who's your Daddy?  Just when did people say, Who's your Daddy? when slapping people in the face?  And finally, there's a running gag involving Brent Spiner (as the villain) laughing maniacally and suddenly farting.  That's the kind of humor that can only make the youngest of youngsters laugh.    If there's anything to look forward to, it's the sultry Jennifer Esposito.  But even she's given a thankless role.  Come on, she gave up Spin City for this?  Master of Disguise has some mildly amusing scenes, especially in the first 30 minutes or so, but all in all this is pure silliness.  And by the way, Carvey's George W. Bush impression (which I was desperately waiting for) doesn't come until the end.  So if you've seen the previews, don't bother shelling out your 8.50.  My score  3 (out of 10)         "},{"Title":"Don't watch!","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Master of disguise is (Sort of) comedy movie to all family. I didn't laugh in any part of it (Even for it huge stupidity!). Main character of the film is some kinda Italian nerd that speaks really annoying. He's family tree contains only some freaks who can disguise themselves for anything they like. So He's Papa Tells him that and now he must use he's new powers. Good script, eh...? Is this funny He goes to club witch name is Tortoile club. So he uses he's brains and goes inside dressed like... A TORTOILE! Was that funny? It was not? Well... That was kinda best joke of this film. There is nothing else than just kids jokes. Beside I think that children just starts to cry... I wouldn't buy this film even if it would be for free! If you don't like great movies or interesting scripts this movie is for you! Otherwise don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Getting a bad rap","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I rarely comment on movies, but when I see one getting such a bad rap.... I rented this for my 2 kids ages 8 and 12, and watched it with them and my wife. We all enjoyed it, and my kids have watched it several times since. It is obvious from the get go that this is a goofy movie, and it succeeds greatly as such. You can see the gags coming, but that only adds to the anticipation, as the goofiness is delivered in spades. We all loved Turtleman, and many of the other nutty characters invented by Dana. It is so difficult to find a family movie that we all can enjoy, that is harmless fun, with no scariness, no mom getting killed (a la Disney), no kidnapping, etc, etc. Only wish there was a sequel! "},{"Title":"The art of disguise is called acting","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I first saw this on the big screen during the summer of 2002-2003 and I enjoyed it. An old friend of mine and I find it funny when it goes I'm going to be a master of disguise. (3x) Enough! (Slaps). The purpose of the Disguiseys being masters of disguise is that they're acting. Anytime I see a person on screen or on TV acting, they became another person. Heck, they're even playing dress up. The nostalgia critic pointed out that when Pistachio was dressed up as an Indian prince, he said that he (Pistachio) looked like the Indian Steve Carell which I find it hilarious. I can tell that the some of the disguises I see were portrayed by real people. For examples like when Grandpa Disguisey was the maid. The crew hired the lady to play the maid disguise and had to mouth Harold (Gould)'s lines. In scenes where Fabrizzio takes off his disguises, that's visual effects. I had to think of Wild Wild West (1999) for one second soon afterwords because of the scenes where Jim and Artemus Gordon use that to find kidnapped scientists. My mom cannot stand Dana Carvey. I can't even understand the little Italian in this flick. (I speak Italian and I think I'd keep listening.) I recently started job training at IHOP and a server was carrying 3 plates and I sarcastically said Hey, moron, use a tray next time. Those are too many plates. Talking baby. LOL 😆. It went by pretty fast with the timing of 80 min. I always watch the end credits to see more of what happened after Pistachio became the master of disguise and when he encountered a tiny man who is controlling the dummy. "},{"Title":"The Master Of Disguise is actually pretty funny","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember one summer in 2002 my older brother and I were getting pizza and thought why not rent some movies so we went to Hollywood Video/Blockbuster to see what we could find.The Master Of Disguise was one of those movies we found. Honestly we never heard so we thought it wouldn't hurt to see it. Now I love movies and I try to watch some with open minds this one is actually pretty funny.Is it a masterpiece? No but did I enjoy it? Yes because there is actually more to this movie than many give it credit for.The plot of the film centers around Pistachio Disguisey (Dana Carvey) who must train to become a Master of Disguise after his parents Fabbrizio Diguisey (James Brolin) and Mother Disguisey (Edie McClurg) are kidnapped by Devlin Bowman (Brent Spiner) Devlin has plotted revenge on the Disguisey family after Fabbrizio set him up to spend 20 years in prison so Devlin blackmails Fabbrizio into becoming a master of disguise once again to help him get the world's rarest treasure. So it is up to Pistachio to save his parents with help from his assistant Jennifer Baker (Jennifer Esposito) along with Grandfather Disguisey (Harold Gould) Plot wise it works for the theme of the film and it actually was interesting for a family film. And it feature some of the most creative comedy I have seen in a long time such as the This is what you're doing this is what I want you to do and I just roll with the Turtle,Turtle,Turtle I still laugh at the quotes even now.I recently watch the film again and still found it to be quite enjoyable as the first time I watch it. Now that being said it is not a perfect movie but I actually was entertain by the film so how could I care?Also I enjoy seeing how the cast made their characters work in the film. This is just one of those films if you just watch it with a open mind you might find it to be enjoyable. I mean it has some creative humor that is not seen anymore along with some creative disguises for the film and it's fun there is not too many movies being made today that are actually fun anymore Just give the film a try you might be surprise how well it is actually is Dana is funny in this film and Jennifer makes a good love interest for the protagonist and I never thought I would see Brent as a villain. If you sit down and just open your mind you'll see that there is more to this movie than you are lead to believe it just one of those films you should look past the junk and see the treasure.I give The Master Of Disguise an 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's Not That Bad!","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I've seen worse comedy films. At least there wasn't all that sexual humor in it like Dumb and Dumber To. I personally was offended though by his fake Italian accent. My grandfather is full blooded and his accent doesn't sound as stupid as all the actors in this film. I swear Hollywood likes insulting Italians by having only one person that's actually an Italian in it. Let's see in this film only Jennifer Esposito is but everybody isn't. WTF Seriously and in Everybody loves Raymond the only one that actually is, is Ray Romano everybody else forget about. The thing that made this film most notable was how it was so random yet in a way hilarious. I admit most of the impersonations sucked but that's the writers fault for not thinking of better impersonations. Overall it's not the worst but I bet whoever gave this a 1 gave Pulp fiction a 10. Yet Pulp fiction is the worst film I've ever seen. This is a fun little comedy film, 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" When Dana produced this movie, he wanted one that his kids could see without there being anything bad in it. When it came out, I was 18. Even though I knew it was going to be a kids movie, I still wanted to see it because of Dana Carvey. Being a kids movie and knowing his motivation, I wasn't expecting some blockbuster comedy that apparently most of the other critics of this movie were. It's a silly stupid kids movie with ridiculous slap stick! If you go into it expecting anything more than that last sentence, you are going to be disappointed. Otherwise, prepare for some good belly laughs! I came on here today to look up this movie again because a line popped into my head. If I had access to my parents' DVD collection, I'd be sitting down to watch it with my little girl tonight!!! "},{"Title":"If you were expecting some Blockbuster film, go home....","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" OK so look, The Master of Disguise was not a great film. But it wasn't awful either. If you're a kid then you'll probably like it. But if your an adult and looking for something to laugh hard at, this isn't the film for you. It's simply a different kind of humor.Spaghetti falling on people's heads, slapstick violence, funny voices, it's all young humor. Just accept it for what it is, it's a family/kids movie. But perhaps someone else besides Dana Carvey would have been suitable for the role of Pistachio. Dana Carvey was more into actual real comedies. Maybe Tom Kenny, someone already associated with kids cartoons and movies.THE MASTER OF DISGUISE (2002) "},{"Title":"Great Film For The Correct Audience - 8 year old boys","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the perfect film for an eight year old boy. It's a little crude, but not overly so. It has some physical humor and sight gags that almost everybody will find amusing. It is a just a little over 80 minutes long, another plus. It's not like you are investing Lawrence of Arabia like time into this. It has some mild comic violence, think Three Stooges for level of violence and then crank it back a little bit. This movie suffers from what several movies made by refugees from Saturday Night Live have suffered from - it is incredibly difficult to make a full length motion picture out of a three minute skit. Dana Carvey does over the top caricatures familiar to anyone who watched SNL when Carvey was in the cast. I watched this film several years ago and thought it was pretty dumb. I watched it again with my eight year old grandson and his appreciation of it made me rethink my opinion a bit. It is not a date night film, for sure, but if you are a babysitter of boys 6-10 years old this will hold their attention and make them laugh. "}{"Title":"I really wanted to like this movie, but . . .","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Simply put, this movie was so infantile it really was rather annoying. I normally love Dana Carvey. He was great in both Wayne's World movies, he was one of the reasons Saturday Night Live became funny again, he's always been hilarious when he's guest hosted SNL in later years, and his stand-up comedy, most especially his 1995 HBO special that aired frequently on Comedy Central, is uproariously funny.For those reasons, I really wanted Dana Carvey to make a big screen comeback and have a movie career as illustrious as Mike Myers'. However, I hope he gets another chance in the next few years with a supporting role in a better movie, because The Master of Disguise is so much of a disappointment I feel embarrassed for Dana Carvey.That's not to say that Dana Carvey doesn't have some moments of brilliance. His Al Pacino and George W. Bush imitations are both funny and on target, but everything else from his annoying Italian accent to his basic dialogue to his name (Come on, Pistachio?) bury those funny moments like a huge pile of rubble and scrap metal. This movie isn't like a car crash it's like a wrecker carrying away the aftermath of the crash to the dump, and it's much easier to look away from that scene.Even though James Brolin, Harold Gould, and Jennifer Esposito obviously did their best with what was given to them, the movie as a whole just suffered. You can't blame them for not trying though. Highly anticipated movies like this usually suffer from a weak script, a disappointing ending, or the primary cast being so eclipsed by their fame and reputation that they show up to shoot drunk and stoned, and their jadedness shows through the screen. Fortunately, the latter wasn't true for this movie, but it still needed some major work.Since this movie bombed critically and commercially, Dana Carvey hasn't made any public appearances that I know of either in movies or on TV. I have the feeling, however, that the next project he works on, whatever it may be, will truly be a big comeback for him. Ellen Degeneres, Ben Affleck, and Woody Allen are among those who have made noteworthy and surprising comebacks during this decade so far, and Dana Carvey has the potential to do the same. "},{"Title":"The most amazing thing about this movie.......","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Is that there are people that have a high enough IQ to write a review, and actually liked it. One of the worst films of all time. I have not been a Carvey fan after SNL but you have to expect more from a guy with his comedic timing and characterization ability. I can only imagine how he must have felt when this wrapped and he looked at the finished product. I can only assume he missed the daily's as any reasonable person would have quit after the first day. That's how bad the film is. There isn't a single scene that isn't embarrassing. The characters are absurd, the acting atrocious, the plot non existent. No question, this movie is a wonderful example of why IMDb should allow zero stars for their reviews. It absolutely doesn't rate the one star I gave it. The idea that people would recommend this movie with a straight face only goes to show what kind of trouble the population at large is really in. I have to think the caretakers of those who enjoyed the movie wrote the review for them because nobody with a IQ higher than 50 could have thought anything other than this movie was an incredible disaster. "},{"Title":"we cant all be winners...","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" i first saw 'master of disguise' when it came out on DVD in early 2003. i remember it being funny, but now i see it as being kind of silly. well, there were some really funny deleted scenes included on the DVD, which (in my opinion) shouldn't have been cut out at all! but really, this movie was pretty unusual for a kid's movie. i mean, a comedian most kids didn't know of at the time, dressing up as some iconic people kids don't know exist, (Quint, Tony Montana)and a scene in which a bumbling idiot and his grandfather disguss the size of a woman's ass? i mean, seriously! is this movie for kids for for sexually frustrated teens? 3/10 "},{"Title":"I could not believe how bad this was !","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I am only giving this movie a one out of ten because it actually finished before I ended up a drooling mess in the corner of the room .We found this 'comedy' on TV and thought we would give it a chance cos it had Dana Carvey in it and it might have been entertaining , how wrong we were . This movie was'nt funny , just inane , at one point a character has a disguise like grass with a cow poo for a face . The jokes and situations were weak and when it finished we were saying  what the hell was that all about  Sorry to say we found this a big waste of time , but my workmate told me her boyfriend really likes this movie , so I guess you should watch it and judge for yourselves . "},{"Title":"Absolutely stinko - abysmal waste of a great comedian's talent","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is simply unwatchable. A word of advice for those who haven't seen The Master of Disguise for those of you - like me - who loved Dana Carvey's impressions and comedy on SNL, remember him that way. I thought he was in the top 5 SNL cast members ever, and it was always a mystery to me why Adam Sandler & Chris Rock (fair-to-middling SNL alumni IMO) became stars while some of the true comedic geniuses like Phil Hartman and Dana Carvey didn't get top roles. In Mr. Carvey's case, the mistake of being in this film show that making good choices is of paramount importance to those aspiring to move on to the big screen. The movie is never funny and isn't even bad good. It just stinks. He plays a character named Pistachio Disguisey. COME ON - my 5-year-old nephew could come up with a wittier name, and believe me, he wouldn't laugh at even the most infantile jokes in this flick. I defy any adult to even crack a smile. If you do, you must be on acid. AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE! "},{"Title":"It takes a few viewings to appreciate.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The production of this movie is pretty weak. It's disjointed and doesn't flow very well. I have to admit, after the first time seeing it I thought it was awful, but my 8 year old daughter and 4 year old son have it on tape and think it's hilarious. So I watched it with them again and after seeing it for the second time I remembered some really funny characters Dana Carvey does. The third time I watched it I found it to be extremely funny. It definitely grows on you.One of the reviews I read here said that the characters Dana does aren't funny, but they couldn't be further from the truth. He does a character based on Tony Montana from Scarface that is hilarious! He also does a character named Gammy Numnums, which is an older snobby woman and is one of the funniest characters in the movie. The problem is that he does so many characters that none of them last long enough. His turtle-man character is really funny and gets funnier the more you see it.Dana Carvey is an absolute brilliant comedian and this movie SHOULD HAVE been his gateway to super stardom (i.e. Jim Carrey). Unfortunately the movie really isn't very good and it shows upon first view. But give it a chance and watch it with you kids and I bet you'll be pleasantly surprised at how much you like it and want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Just what you might expect","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" You might expect a movie produced by Adam Sandler and starring Dana Carvey to be really, really bad - and you would not be disappointed with Master of Disguise. From an uninspiring beginning that leaves you wondering why you should care about any of the characters through a bunch of overdone slapstick and pre-adolescent humor, including an interminably-repeated fart joke, this one is a dog.The only redeeming qualities this movie has are the underutilized talents of Brent Spiner and the delightful, gorgeous and talented Jennifer Esposito, who pulls off the only decent performance in the film.Let's put it this way Jesse Ventura has a cameo, and the rest of the movie makes his cameo a high point. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Get's old after three viewings.","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Kay The Master of Disguise was funny the first time I saw it because I can take kiddish humor. The second time I saw it, it went into so-so territory. Third time, there was only one part that was funny (my name is gammy, gammy numb-numbs)that lasts about 50 seconds which isn't worth the ordeal it puts us through.The plot revolves around Pistachio, a thirty year old waiter who puts his underwear on his head and puts on a shaving cream beard, gets a cane and thinks hes a Shepperd. If that not a sign of a bad movie I don't know what is. Anyway his father is kidnapped and his grandfather enters in Exorcist fashion and tell him that he is in a family of people who can change their personalities to fight crime and Pistachio must find his inner master of disguise to save his parents.I wonder if this looked good on paper because that cherry pie man was a little childish even for this movie, not to mention stupid. I have friends who are my age and love this movie and I can't believe it because it's so stupid but they adore it and think I'm crazy for not liking it. But you no everyone is entitled to their opinion.Bottom line Sucks except for a drag part that is pretty funny. I still can't believe i spent 10 bucks to buy this crap. And on a brighter note this movie single handedly ruin Dana Carveys career and my one friend who likes this and Wayne's World can't believed that happened.Grade */**** "},{"Title":"Re-assessing my friend","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Fortunately, I neither rented nor paid a dime to see this movie. A friend of mine who I actually like highly recommended it and lent it to me. I must say that I now evaluate everything she says and does in a different light. The whole plot is a series of impersonations and characters that Dana Carvey can easily handle, but this movie's funny points could have been a 3 minute stand-up routine at best. I only watched the whole thing to be able to discuss it with my friend. The highlights were the Robert Shaw bit and a very small amount of the Al Pacino bit. The first time Brent Spiner farted, maybe. But the Turtle Club scene and some of the dialog was so mindless that I refused to let my six year old watch the movie. It definitely belongs in the bottom 100 of all time. "},{"Title":"Just embarrassing to watch","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" It is a mystery to why I bothered even watching this film because I knew perfectly well that any film shown at 3 o'clock is not going to be remotely entertaining. For a lack of anything better to do (this has to be the only reason for anyone watching it), I sat down and tried to take in this tripe.First of all, it is obvious that it is trying too hard to be funny and is blatantly copying features of respectable films e.g. SHREK and THE EXORCIST. Punchlines are too obvious, these half-baked jokes are unbearable and you wonder if the producers even bothered thinking about how the plot works. Also, someone in the production is totally obsessed with slapping people.I feel pity on the main character for being so embarrassing. He deserves better! Even though I have been only exposed to mostly decent films, this has to be one of the worst movies of all time. "}{"Title":"Painful and awkward aren't funny","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I've always been a Dana Carvey fan. He was funny on Saturday Night Live, funny in Wayne's World, and funny everywhere else that he wasn't bearing the full weight of a movie with the strength of his comedic ability.His big test came in Master of Disguise, and with it he flunked out of film school.Don't believe that just because you're a comedy fan (as one reviewer put it) that you'll somehow be rolling in the aisles at this. You won't. If you were in the theater, you'd probably walk out. Since you'll probably watch this at home, expect to walk out of your house, because the whole thing will be poisoned.The first poorly acted scene with legendary starlet Bo Derek was just a harbinger of things to come. Flailing confusion followed for the next 75 minutes, which seemed a stretched out version of a 45 minute script.The acting never convinced you of anything but the effect of weak directing. It was as if director Perry Blake was too afraid to tell his actors what to do. Few of them turned in a scene that didn't seem like a first take. The cameras just kept rolling anyway, perhaps trying to save money on film by not re-shooting anything.The costume-based jokes all fall flat in seconds. When a character is more creepy and awkward than funny, there's a problem. On a scale of 1 to 10, one being amusing and ten being creepy, the Turtle Guy scene was the proverbial 11. Note to all involved A guy saying turtle in a weird sheepish voice isn't funny, and it certainly isn't funny when you've had him repeat it 20 times within five minutes as the only attempted joke in the entire scene.If the only comic relief next to the performance of confused, awkward straight man Jennifer Esposito is a guy repeating the same line over and over again, you're scraping the wood off the bottom of the laugh barrel. There's just nothing there to find remotely amusing. All the audience feels is pity for everyone involved in the movie, including themselves.That type of unnerving awkwardness repeats over and over again throughout the movie, halted only briefly by comedic gems left completely unexplored like the Classmates.com profile in which the evil villain (played by Brent Spiner, who once again had nothing to work with) gives away his entire plan.What you get is an unfunny, unbearable view of Dana Carvey and many of his cast mates committing career suicide right in front of you. If you want to watch a movie that makes you feel joy, laughter, intrigue, and other positive feelings, watch something else. If you want to ride a roller-coaster of unrequited emotion as you hope over and over again that Dana Carvey is funny for his own sake, only to be let down over and over again until you push the stop button, this one's for you. It's not funny; it's sad. "},{"Title":"Visual and auditory diarrhea","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The DVD should come with a warning label WARNING If watched, INDUCE VOMITING!!! I felt truly let down by Dana Carvey, as I hold him in high regard due to his work in the Wayne's World movies. Also the preview for the film had good jokes in it... WHICH WERE NOT INCLUDED IN THE FILM!!! I saw the preview and found myself laughing hysterically at some of Dana's remarks and looking forward to seeing the movie (little did I know that such jokes as the Neapolitan ice-cream debate would be omitted to make room for crap like the fart jokes involving the ridiculous villain). "},{"Title":"WOW  What a Film !","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Decided to view this film simple because of the title and I was probably thinking about Lon Chaney and his many faces of Horror. Well, this film was a horrible mess and a big Horror to watch. I will have to say that Dana Carvey,(Pistachio Disguisey),The Shot,'96 did a great job of acting crazy and I am sure it was not easy to follow the script. Jennifer Esposito,(Jennifer Baker),Crash,'04, was rather cute and very attractive and gave a good supporting role. Last but not least, James Brolin,(Fabbrizio Disguisey),A Guy Thing,'03, added his talents to this picture, but I began to wonder if Barbra Streisand enjoyed this film and her husband's performance. WOW "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was so unfunny it was painful to watch. Everything from the lame pop-culture references to the terrible forced accents was awful. This film practically gets on its knees and begs for laughs like none other I've seen, and this is compared to such classics like the police academy movies and any Adam Sandler movie. It's saddening to see a talented comedian like Dana Carvey stoop this low. Let any of your kids over the age of 5 watch this schlock and they'll probably slit your throat in your sleep. Everything about it screams slapped together, All of his disguises appeared in the trailers, Pistachio Disguisey. The impressions sounded like something the guy who gets drunk off his ass does at a party. The (thankfully) 80 minutes running time. Don't see this movie, ever. Even at a crappy movie night because there just isn't any entertainment value whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This little movie has become one of our family's all time favorites. Honestly, we watch it over and over again, quote it to each other, show it to other people. No, it's not a great movie; but it is a funny movie. You just have to have a taste for silliness, a childlike taste.When the nefarious Devlin Bowman (Brent Spiner) kidnaps his legendary father (James Brolin), Pistachio Disguisey (Dana Carvey) has to learn the ways of Energico and go to the rescue -- not just of his parents but of numerous national treasures besides. Ably helped by an assistant Jennifer (Jennifer Esposito) and his mystical grandfather (Harold Gould), Pistachio slowly becomes the Master of Disguise.Carvey, who has always cracked me up anyway, whirls through an army of loopy characters -- Granny Num-Nums, Mr. Peru, Terry Suave, Constable Muller, Cherry Pie Man (Look! It's Cherry Pie Man!, like everybody knows him), and the great Turtle Man. There are also Robert Shaw from Jaws and even President George W. Bush at a crucial moment.The DVD (yes, we own it) special features show those weren't all he had in mind -- Mayor Maynot is so well done, but was cut out completely, for instance.Special kudos to Spiner, who was evil, and Esposito, who played along hilariously. And the guy offering hors d'oeuvres to Mr. Peru, just for keeping a straight face.The Italian accents are uniformly awful, I'll admit, and the gags are sometimes dopey. But they're funny dopey, not painful dopey. If you're not too sophisticated to enjoy a simply enjoyable movie, rent this movie or pick it up for $5 at Half Price Books like we did. Watch it with some kids, about 10 years old. It will be difficult for you to stop laughing. "},{"Title":"Master of Disgust is a more suitable title.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Of all the bile-inducing vomitoriums to squeeze out of Tinseltown's bloody sphincter over the past 50 years, this is indisputably the worst of the lot. Carvey's one-man show is such a poor excuse for comedy that it doesn't even deserve to get raked by the MST 3000 crew. I swear, I actually felt nauseated after watching this festering pile of manure. In order to lengthen the lame 70-minute running time, the producers padded the end credits to TEN minutes with lame-ass Carvey impressions that surely couldn't even make the last few minutes of that God-awful Saturday Night Live TV show. In it you can see Carvey imitating other notable actors who surely don't deserve the indignity. Did I mention it features Jessica Simpson in a cameo? Yech!! If you ever plan on watching this stinking puke-fest, you might want to make sure you have plenty of Pepto-Bisthmol beforehand. "},{"Title":"Commercials Misled Me","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw the commercials for this movie, and it didn't look as horrible as it was. The movie was so lame and I have never seen anything worse in my life. I hope to god that nobody thinks that this is Dana Carveys best movie. If you think that, then this is the only Dana Carvey movie you have seen. He was great in Wayne's World and was probably the only thing that somebody liked about Master of Disguise. Dana Carvey plummeted in this movie, and it is so awful. Who wants to see a guy who farts every time he laughs? I'm not putting down all fart jokes, but that one was just lame. This is the lamest movie that I have ever seen and is good only to use as a Frisbee or coaster, and even then, you will be disappointed by this trash. "},{"Title":"You idiots! How can you hate this?","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I thought this was a great film, I laughed my ass off! Can't you pinkos sit back and enjoy the finer points of this...dare I say it? Classic. I mean sure, like any other film, it had its rougher elements such as Pistasicios mother who I disliked immensely (and who was a voice in a cartoon I can't put my finger on) but I though this hardly affected the plot. I especially liked the villains' farting jokes (yeah, that's right) not to mention the Lincoln speech, man that bit cracked me up. But what confuses me is that you people couldn't handle the silliness of the film, the weight of your reality has destroyed your viewing pleasure. You might have gotten used to your linear life of work, family, weekend leisure in a constant cycle, but perhaps you don't realise the damage it has done to your mind and soul. Also being your inability to appreciate the humour of a child (I'm 15 so it hasn't escaped me yet fortunately) A good film, not a perfect one mind you yet still worth watching if you have the soul. "},{"Title":"90 minutes stolen from my life","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Without question the worst movie I have ever seen. Had the projector broke even 10 minutes before the end, it would have spared me another agonizing 10 minutes, as I could have cared less how the movie ended. Annoying characters, inane plot, and the scene in the Turtle Club made me want to vomit. This is truly a comedy without a single funny moment. The only reason to stay and watch even one moment of this bomb is the very beautiful Jennifer Esposito. I cannot say enough bad things about this movie. I have however recommeded this movie to several people; my ex-wife, mother-in-law, and other people I felt needed to be punished. You have been warned!!! "},{"Title":"a wonderful kids movie","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Master of Disguise is a wonderfully fun family movie, packed full of colorful cinematography, playful characterization and innocent humor.I loved Dana Carvey's caricatures of the well known film characters that we all know and love; particularly the Al Paccino based Mister Peru (satisical of the movie scarface) and, Jaws's Quint character (origionaly played My Robert Shaw) were incredibly amusing as i'm a big fan of both movies found Carveys versions brilliant.This is one of my favorite chear me up movies and, the first movie I play when i'm entertaining my numerous nieces, nephews and younger siblings. "}{"Title":"Why isn't this #1?","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" There can't be a movie worse than this. Why won't they let you enter a vote less than 1? This movie makes battlefield earth look like Casablanca. I've watched a lot of children's movies with my son, and none are as bad as this, so this movie can't be for children. sometimes you watch a movie and want your money back, but you can't put a price on the anguish that this causes. All parties responsible for making this should be locked up so they can't hurt us again. The instructional video that they show new employees at Kinko's to clear a paper jam is The Godfather compared to this pile of crap. Whenever Goodfellas or Casino comes out, Italian-American groups complain about negative stereotypes, but Dana Carvey's character is called Pistachio Disguisey, and talks with a corny pseudo-Italian accent, and nobody says a word. I'm not Italian, but if I was, I'd rather have people think I'm a gangster than a no talent hack named pistachio disguisey. If anyone needs to sleep with the fishes, it's anyone associated with the making or distribution of this so-called film. "},{"Title":"Terribly funny","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't understand how so many people hate this movie! I think it's just gang mentality or something because this is a really funny movie. Is it a good movie? Hell no! What kind of fool would walk into Master of Disguise expecting a solid piece of captivating story telling? Master of Disguise is nothing more than a bunch of childish jokes and impressions that are thrown in for no good reason other than to showcase carvie's talent. And guess what? they're hilarious! The best thing about this movie is everyone involved knows the movie is just ridiculous but the cast puts everything they've got into it anyway and play their characters as if they were serious.I could imagine kids would laugh at this like crazy! I love the joke about how the disguisees only like women with huge hips and in one scene the dana carvie and his uncle are admiring this fat lady from behind, but then the lady turns around and its this fat guy with a beard wearing a dress!!! both of them recoil in disgust! Stupid? yes but it works for some reason. I enjoyed it a lot! "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" This is own one of the worst movies ever made in the history, I mean, a bad villain, a bad hero, what else can I wait? The first time I saw this movie I couldn't believe my friends were laughing at a bad scene, when The Master of Disguise is dressed like a turtle, then bits a nose, and the rest is something so fool and unfunny he cuts the nose and then returns it to the owner, that's scary stuff. Other thing that I had no sense was that he could dress like anything in just a second, I mean, in one minute he is dressed like a scary fisher who tells weird stories, and at the second minute he is dressed like a piece of grass with a something smelly on his head on his head, and to worse the thing, someone steps over him, doesn't that hurt? But what I hated more of this movie was the villain, I mean, he has to be in the bathroom all the day? Every time he laughed something smelly appeared from his butt, and lets not even talk when he falls in the pool, it almost looks like an explosion, a smelly explosion. I have some conclusions for this movie1.- My friends cannot difference a good comedy from a bad comedy2.- Looks like some persons want to have yet a worse movie than Manos Hands of Fate3.- Good actors are fallingWell, what can I say? This movie is awful, but there are yet worse movies, so lets ignore to talk about this movie, and pray that in the future there is no The Master of Disguise 2 "},{"Title":"Nearly as bad as you've heard","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Dana Carvey is an extremely talented individual, with a flair for voices and looks, the supporting cast all perfectly capable, and a rather impressive list of Celebrity Cameos, It took me a little while to work out why this movie is so bad. It is one of those movies where you can identify each and every joke, but you don't laugh at a single one of them. Kids will miss much of the humour and probably a lot of the fast spoken dialogue will whoosh over their heads, Adults will of course realise that comedy moved beyond fart jokes and silly voices. Its a shame that Carvey may end up being remembered for this, after such wonderful work on SNL and Waynes World. Lets hope he finds a better outlet some time soon... "},{"Title":"Must be seen to be believed.","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I like Dana Carvey. I've always thought he was funny from SNL to his own show on ABC. I even liked his film Clean Slate and The Road to Wellness wasn't that bad. But this film is arguably the worst waste of talent, celluloid, energy, or any other resource for that matter that has ever been put on film. Not only is the film not funny, it is difficult to even sit through. Had the plot developed out in a more tongue-in-cheek manner, it probably could have worked, but there would have to be a plot first. The character names alone give a hint at just how bad this film is. How do films like this get a green light? Who really thought this would be a hit? This film is an exercise in how to end your career and leave little chance for it being resurrected. "},{"Title":"Lighten up y'all!","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I just rented this on DVD. I am mystified as to why so many of the user comments were so scathing. This was meant to be nothing more than a goofy movie, like Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. You shouldn't expect a seamless plot or complex characters in a movie like this. I thought Dana's Scarface impersonation was brilliant, and Brent Spiner turned in a very funny -- but not over-the-top hammy -- performance (based on his work here, I wish he had been cast as Count Olaf; it would have been the perfect role for him). Look, I like witty repartee as much as the next person with a graduate degree, but fart jokes and Rob Schneider also crack me up (especially that scene where he's romancing the goat in The Animal). So sue me. "},{"Title":"Dumbfounded, likely the worst movie I've seen","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" First, I'll say that I believe this movie is a large, steaming pile. I have to ask, for anyone who says they enjoyed this movie, did we see the same one? I found little entertainment value, and indeed cringed at the attempts at 'funny'. When the funniest bit in the whole film is a guy farting every time he laughs, the movie needs some serious work and/or revision.What I believe this film suffers from is a case of bad editing, more than anything. I can see where some of the jokes would be funny, some of the pratfalls could have given a laugh or two, and how some of the disguises could have been pulled off with hilarity.Instead, I saw a movie with heavy-handed attempts at humor, with timing intended for very young children. Indeed, if it were not for the main character's attraction to large butts (about the only sexual tones in the movie), and the drawn-out plot line, I'd say it's a movie intended for children between the ages of 2 and 5.Perhaps if the time spent trying to make the audience 'get it' were cut out, or some of the over-the-top characters given snappier lines, the jokes could have worked. Then again, it would have shortened the movie to about 30 minutes.Dana Carvey seems to be trying to be like Jim Carrey or Martin Short, which is a shame. I have to ask, when he saw the final edit, did he think it was good? I have wasted my time on movies before, such as Leonard, Part 6, and Ishtar, and I gleefully toss this movie in that category.If I could only get my 2 hours back. "},{"Title":"I cried during this movie...","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" ...and it wasn't a chick flick. This movie is bad on so many levels. Dana Carvey, in all seriousness, what the f#$% were you thinking?!? Who authorized this piece of crap? The plot...don't even get me started. This is, bar none, the single WORST comedy movie I have ever seen. The acting...oh God, it hurts so bad. And then there's the bloopers.Rating -10 out of 10Bottom line Go watch Carvey's Chooping Broccoli sketch from SNL. You'll get more laughter out of those 3 minutes than you'll get out of this horrible turd. "},{"Title":"zzZZZZ","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was easily the worst movie I have ever had to sit through.I was felt very embarrassed for Carey. I was so looking forward to it as I was really likes his nerdish and shy character in the waynes world movies. Not only what was he thinking but also what was he doing in half of the scenes? Did he do half of them himself or did the director also go to sleep with his performance and not yell cut ? ? ?PLEASE LET ME FORGET THIS QUICKLY.  "},{"Title":"Some laughs, but very disappointing","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I expected THE MASTER OF DISGUISE to be a very hilarious movie where Dana Carvey would be able to showcase his mimicry skills and finally get the recognition he deserves, but unfortunately, the movie is awful. I watched it with a few friends and they all said it was the worst movie they have ever seen. Most of the jokes fall flat, or are dragged out so much that they are no longer funny. It is a very campy and childish movie about a man named Devlin Bowman who kidnaps Pistacio Disguisey's father so he will be able to steal world treasures. To save his father, Pistacio must learn how to become a master of disguise with help from his grandfather and his sidekick, the Jennifer Esposito. Antics ensue. Pistacio's Italian accent gets very annoying, just like this entire movie. Dana Carvey is an incredibly talented man who deserves better.  "}{"Title":"Rating too low, film not as bad as rating","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I find this movie to be not as bad as the rating. Come to think of it, I enjoy it more than other mindless comedies like Zoolander, The Hot Chick, or the one that Aston Kutcher did (the title of which I forgot). With this one I did laugh once, in the cobra snake scene, and giggled a few times in several scenes. Of course there are lame moments here and there, but overall I think kids will like it.Poor Spiner though, he only gets to do 1 joke, which is repeated way too many times.Unfortunately, many people seem to really hate this movie and give it a rating of 1, skewing the total rating of this movie into the Bottom 100. "},{"Title":"master of crap","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Didn't anybody read this script before funding it? I'm wondering if the bankrollers just gave Carvey a blank check for just ad-libbing the entire movie. I don't recall him ever being this bad, even on a talk show. These SNL folks just don't have a clue, yet they keep pulling in the big bucks for their flicks after leaving SNL. Must be a lot of dopers out there with ready cash for the movies. Movies like this are the best evidence yet for the long-term effects of dope. Every one of Dana's characters sounded nearly identical to the others; just different clothes and teeth. I think this is also evidence for the huge egos involved not only on the acting side, but also on the production side. The Hollywood producers really must think we're idiots out here in the hinterlands.  "},{"Title":"Master of Disguise disguised humor too well","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I saw that Dana Carvey was in The Master of Disguise, I just had to see it. He is one of my favorite comics, and I thought he did a fabulous job as Garth in Wayne's World. But when I finally saw this movie, I couldn't stand it. It was terrible. Absolutely and completely terrible. There were way too many things overdone in this movie. The running gas gag was funny the first time, but after that it became predictable and in poor taste. Even the ending was too long. It was also hard to watch Brent Spiner in the role as Devlin Bowman, because he is so much better than that (plus it's hard to see him portray anyone but Commander Data in the Star Trek series). Don't waste your money folks.  "},{"Title":"A sad WASTE","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched it with a 9 yo.  I had thought one of us would laugh @ some point with Dana Carvey writing and staring in it.  I was wrong.  Movies that are this expensive to make are almost painful to me.Things I liked Jennifer Esposito has some screen presence -  The little ball and the font in the opening credits -  Scareface dance sequenceThings I had difficulty with Brent Spiner can't do fart jokes to save his life -  All the impersonations were just off -  Pacing of the action -  Accents. "},{"Title":"This film made me lose a bet!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My fella and I were browsing in the video store when we saw this DVD. We laughed ourselves sick, as you would, at the cover, and spent many a long evening contemplating the significance of the role of 'Turtle Guy' and 'Gammy Num-nums.'  The fact that he was called Pistachio Disguisey managed to put us off renting this film for several months. Would that it had prevented us from renting it forever. I bet my fiance that this would be the type of film that would be so bad that it was good. I swore that I would watch it to the end.I wish I hadn't. This film isn't just bad it's painfully unfunny and every 'joke' falls flat. Pistachio's woeful Italian accent made me feel glad that bad things happened to him towards the end I was seriously rooting for the bad guys. Now, if this film had managed to disguise itself as something enjoyable, then I wouldn't be here now. But let this review serve as a warning there are thousands of people who do not have dvds, vcrs or even Televisions. This film will make you envy them. I myself nearly threw out my dvd player just in case the film ever found its way back, like some cheap horror film. Undoubtably that scenario is more entertaining than the film itself. "},{"Title":"Just bad","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was really hard to sit through. I loved Carvey on Saturday Night Live. I even found his film Clean Slate amusing. But this is a downward spiral for a very talented comedian. He is literally stuck in a mess of stale,thoughtless jokes. The impersonations,especially the one on Robert Shaw from Jaws,are razor sharp. Unfortunately,the jokes behind the impersonations are dreadful. What a mass of wasted time this comedy is. The movie can barely make an hour and ten minutes. It never had the air to run out of. It's really sad to have to sit and watch a talented comedian flounder. It was already tough seeing Chevy Chase flounder in Vegas Vacation. But not Carvey,too. BOMB/***** "},{"Title":"Worst Movie that I have never seen!!!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was without a doubt the worst movie that I have NEVER SEEN!  I like Dana Carvey and think that he is very talented, but after watching the opening scene for about 5 minutes, I already had enough of his terrible accent....it was painful to the ears.  After fast forwarding to the turtle scene, I stopped the movie and THREW IT OUT!  I have to admit that I tend to enjoy stupid movies, but I couldn't even bare to give this one a chance ) "},{"Title":"Awful is putting is nicely","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was one of the worse movies i ever saw , I really wasn't expecting much & was very disapointed . This movie was just plain Stupid !!!! The Best part of this movie was when i returned it to Blockbuster !! all in all Master Of Disguise it tied for the worse movie i ever saw & i can't remember the title of what it's tied with but it's a lame ripoff of Revenge Of The Nerds  "},{"Title":"I can't believe this was released!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the weakest film I have seen for a long time. All of the 'set-piece' jokes such as the Turtle guy completely fell flat. I watched this at my friend's house with a few others and the only funny things we were seeing were each other's reactions to this shoddy film. Even at just £2.95 on DVD (less than $5 for you American readers) to buy this was a waste of money. The best part of the DVD was the deleted scenes, namely the Mayor Maynot scene which despite being the funniest scene that was filmed by an absolute mile, still managed to end up on the cutting room floor.I dread to think what was going through the heads of the producers when they were making this. Surely they must have realised that it was complete crap before they even got the cameras out. Or maybe not as on the DVD commentary they talk about the film like it's a masterpiece. I'm not going to say this is the worst film ever, because it isn't, but it isn't far off either.Perhaps Dana Carvey should have disguised his name as well as I can't see a career recovery after this blunder. "},{"Title":"Bad On So Many Levels","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My daughter who is 5 loved the commercial for this movie. Turtle turtle! It was a catch phrase of hers for ahile. This came out on Pay Per View and always having liked Dana Carvey I thought this might be one of those films that parents and children could both enjoy. WRONG!  Its just BAD! Even the Turtle turtle part was BAD! It was just an unfunny mess. It didnt work on ANY level. My daughter fell asleep about 25 minutes in. When the turtle part came on I thought about waking her,but didnt. Why bother? "}{"Title":"Not Much Can Be Said...","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a horrible movie! Dana Carvey is repulsive, revolting and self-serving. Who in Gods name allowed him to go ahead and produce such utter crap. Not even my partners seven year old brother laughed. Im not even going to bother explaining why - just trust me and avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Funny scenes to the movie, but overall stupid!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was on cable the other morning and I found nothing better to watch, so I sat down and found myself watching a movie that had some funny scenes, but an overall stupid plot.Carvey is a waiter whose father (Brolin) has an alter ego.  When his parents are kidnapped, his grandfather (Gould) shows up and shows him the reason why he is the way he is Carvey is a master of disguise...he just doesn't know it yet.With training from his grandfather (like some old karate movie) Carvey sees the light and becomes the formidable opponent to Spiner, who has blackmailed Carvey's father into stealing precious American historical item like the Declaration of Independence and the Liberty Bell (with cameos like Jesse Ventura and Jessica Simpson).Like I said, some of the scenes did make me laugh, but the plot is not very bright...I thought my 12 year old daughter could have written a better plot. Out of 10 stars, it doesn't even make average I gave it a 4, but only on Carvey, not the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets.","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Even if I had a frontal lobotomy, I couldn't sit through this piece of cow dung.  It's basically a series of unfunny Dana Carvey skits, with a written in ten minutes screenplay to (sort of) tie them together.  Awful. Dreadful.Dana Carvey should be REALLY embarrassed by this. How did it ever get released? "},{"Title":"Wow! This movie SUCKS!!!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I generally like Dana Carvey, but I have to be honest and say that this movie is terrible. I watched it in my school as a sort of reward for my class doing good on some test. It was so bad I would have rather learned spanish. That means its pretty pathetic if this is coming from a 15 year old! The jokes are stupid and the plot is worse. I really hated the word they used for the special force thats helps Pistachio disguise himself, Energico (Spanish for Energy). I don't know why, but it p***ed me off thinking that they couldn't even create a good word or something.Like I said, in summary, THIS MOVIE IS ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE!!! I do not even know how a little kid could like it. "},{"Title":"Flimsy Disguise","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Master of Disguise is the latest movie to star Dan Carvey.  In it, he takes on the role of Pistachio Disguisey, a human chameleon who takes on many roles.  I found Master of Disguise silly, but somewhat enjoyable.  Some of the movie references were well done, but on the whole, most adults would not care for this movie.  Dana Carvey is a talented person, but he really deserved better than this! "},{"Title":"profoundly stupid","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My sister was watching this with a friend, and I decided to watch too.  At first I simply assumed that I had missed something, but as it dragged on I only got more confused.  By the end, I was at a loss for words.  At first I thought that there had to be an explanation, but there was none.  Only after careful thought did I realize I had just experienced a level of stupidity that I did not previously know existed.  It was hyperstupidity; stupidity that was stupid in itself.  The plot was nonexistent.  SURE, you could write a summary the movie, but on closer examination you see that the sequence of events is only a bunch of fragments.  A plot has unity.  I rate this movie 1 out of 10, but only because it taught me a new concept. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever Contender","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have this movie on DVD.  This is my second attempt at watching it. Its the worst thing I've ever seen.  Its bringing back painfulmemories of Hudson Hawk.  Yes Dana Carvey is talented.  A comedy film needs a good director.  This really is the mess of all messes. It is not, as others have said, a bunch of skits joined together. Aren't skits funny ??  This is a bunch of garbage joined together. I just finished watching Dumb & Dumber'er ... which although not too funny, is definitely 150% better than this.  I'm gonna have to turn it off now. My second time... I made 42 minutes..., 20 ofwhich was writing this and nothing on the screen could take me away from writing this... just gave me more conviction to complete the review.   "},{"Title":"Dear God, it's awful","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the most lame, unfunny, difficult to understand movie I have ever seen.  I actually contemplated buying the DVD just so I could smash it against the wall.  Don't just walk but run away from this nightmare of a movie.  Dana Carvey is much too funny to have actually conceived this brain-dead idea.  I'm hoping his next venture will be better; however, in comparison to this bomb - a movie about animal cruelty would be funnier than the Master of Disaster. "},{"Title":"I feel dumber for having seen this movie.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is easily one of the top 5 worst movies of all time.  I wish I could have those precious minutes of my life back.  I think The Onion said it best, DVD released with 83 minutes of previously unseen movie, and the movie was only 80 minutes long! "},{"Title":"Boundless talent . . .totally wasted.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I didn't expect sophisticated humor, but this film was a total mess. . and a shame.  Dana is abundantly talented, but like Martin Short, crafting a film to spotlight that  talent remains an elusive challenge. I hope he gets another chance to do it right. c "}{"Title":"Better Off Dead","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Than sitting through this again. Does it make sense to parody other comedies? I mean think about it, to me that's just real laziness. That's what literally every scene in this movie is, a takeoff on other famous and not so famous recent history comedy bits. I'm sure they thought they were geniuses when they came up with this as an idea, but there's a reason it hasn't been done before. Incredible, Carvey as a talent got publicly steamrolled on SNL when Mike Myers joined the cast, and you just can't stop thinking about that watching this. But I'm sure he's a very nice person. By the way, anyone else besides me notice the irony that the list of the all time worst movies...represents a now playing schedule of the premium cable channels like HBO and Cinemax! Help!!!! "},{"Title":"Carvey's talent wasted","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I felt so bad watching Dana Carvey in this series of skits impersonating a film but he was partly responsible because he helped write this script. Story is about an inept Italian waiter Pistachio Disguisey (Carvey) who works with his parents (James Brolin and Edie McClurg) in a restaurant but one day they are kidnapped by Devlin Bowman (Brent Spiner) who was locked up for many years because of Pistachio's father Fabbrizio who was a master of disguise. Then Pistachio's grandfather (Harold Gould) shows up and tells him that his family has been masters for a long time. Grandfather gives him a crash course in disguises and they find him an assistant named Jennifer (Jennifer Esposito) who helps him track down his parents. They follow clues and this gives Pistachio an opportunity to use his new skills. Bowman makes Fabbrizio steal famous items for his collection like being disguised as Jesse Ventura and stealing the Liberty Bell! This film was directed by Perry Blake and its his first attempt at directing. Yes, it shows. Blake is really a Production Designer and has worked primarily on Adam Sandler films and here he shows no skill at pacing or editing. The film is a mess. Its just a series a skits and all of them are unfunny. Carvey is a talented performer and during moments in this film you can see his true comedic abilities. My personal favorite is when he impersonates Robert Shaw from Jaws and you can see that all he needs is a good story to showcase himself. We haven't seen much of Carvey lately and thats due to illness so maybe he needed the money badly. Esposito is very attractive but she doesn't show much flare for comedy except for playing everything straight and reacting to Carvey's antics. This was filmed on the studio backlot and it shows. It kind of reminded me of a Seinfeld episode posing as New York. The film is slightly over one hour long but the credits and outtakes drag on for another 15 minutes! Obviously the story ran out of steam early and to try and make this movie about 75 minutes they tacked on every deleted scene and actors flubbing their line. It all seems so sad and pathetic. Can somebody please write a good script for Dana Carvey!   "},{"Title":"Zany & funny Dana Carvey vehicle...","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  1st watched  8/8/2003 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Perry Andelin Blake) Zany & funny Dana Carvey vehicle that is perfect for his type of humor. He is almost un-stoppable in his depictions of others, as is seen at the end of the movie when the outtakes almost outnumber the actual movie characters that he plays.  The story revolves around an Italian family called the `Disguises' that are all, guess what, `Masters of Disguise.'  The family tries to keep this secret from the young Pistachio Disguisie(Dana Carvey) but he soon finds out and then takes it upon himself to also be a `Master of Disguise.'  In a movie like this, we really don't care about the plot but we just want to laugh and there are plenty of laughs in this movie.  With all plotless, funny movies there are a few quiet moments but not enough  to make this un-viewable.  Watch out for a sequel and I hope it's as funny as the original!!  "},{"Title":"On a scale from 1-10, even 1 is too high!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is the worth pile of (insert the worst word you can think of). It is a direct insult to anyone who paid to see it, and even freeloaders will regret this.I used to love Dana Carvey when he did Saturday Night Live, and this was my main motivation to see this film, but this seems to be the end of the man - if there is any fairness in the world. I feel directly hurt watching him insult me and other viewers with this Jim Carrey wannabe-crap (remark, I have no problem with Carrey, only the wannabe's!). This man had his own style but he sold out in the very worst way.There is no point in this film, it's not funny, it's sad. All attempts fall to the ground and this movie should never have been!!!On a scale from 1 to 10, 1 (which is awful) is still WAY too over rated! THIS IS, in short, THE SORT OF GARBAGE THAT ORDINARY GARBAGE WOULD FROWN UPON!Sorry, Carvey! VERY sorry! "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday with my 7yo son, and it is rubbish.I get to see a lot of kids movies and I usually can get a laugh or two but this was amazing for it complete lack of humour.Don't see it it will only encourage them to make a sequel -) "},{"Title":"Is there a rewind on me buying this movie?","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really, really wanted to like this movie.  I love Dana Carvey (from SNL) and Brent Spiner (from Star Trek TNG).Unfortunately, there are literally NO laugh out loud moments in this movie. The only chuckles even, were generated when Brent Spiner's character laughed maniacally and then got cut off by his uncontrollable gas. Otherwise, the few smiles just didn't cut it.I bought this, but do yourself a favour and don't even rent it.  Get Wayne's World, or Moving, or some other comedy where Dana Carvey is actually funny.Phew. "},{"Title":"This film made me angry","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of the few films that made me mad ... not for any reason other than that it took away time from my life when I could have been doing something else. Don't get me wrong -- Dana Carvey is a talented guy, but this movie was simply stupid and unfunny. Just to clarify, I'm one of the few people I know of who actually *enjoyed* OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS ... and I still found MASTER OF DISGUISE to be very hard to stomach. Stay away from this one ... even if you don't have to pay any money to see it. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing but not a must-see on ANY level","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just watched The Master Of Disguise last night. Other than being completely and utterly ridiculous, it did give Dana Carvey a chance to do what he does best, dress in silly costumes and talk in funny voices. Otherwise I thought it was a waste of time. There were some funny parts...Brent Spiner's bad guy was amusing, and Jennifer Esposito as Pistachio's sexy right-hand girl. Otherwise it was a waste of an hour and a half. Got kids? They might enjoy it. Otherwise, rent something worthwhile (I recommend The Banger Sisters) for yourself.   "},{"Title":"Good candidate for the worst movie ever","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Even horrible movies such as Howard the Duck, Caddyshack 2, and Nothing But Trouble at least are so bad that they are funny just for being so bad. This movie is just plain bad. Dana Carvey is so much better than this, a real shame. "},{"Title":"One of the WORST films ever made!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the worst movies i have ever seen, and seeing it was most likely the most wasted 80 minutes of my life. Although Dana Carvey is pretty funny comedian and can do some good  impersonations it doesn't mean a movie should be made about it. The movie has a few (very few) funny moments, but the rest of it really sucks. The plot makes no sense and most of the characters are really annoying. I still don't understand why celebrities like Paula Abdul ,Bo Derek and Michael Johnson had agreed to take a part in this Horrible production. In closing, watching this film is really not recommended to anyone, but if you do, remeber that i warned you.i gave it 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Sucked is wayyyyy too positive!!!!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  How did it only rank #38 on the worst 100 list?  Terrible script, no acting, no plot .... it is difficult to believe it was made at all.  Hopefully nobody counted on getting anything for their points.  Dana Carvey is a one-trick pony ...and the trick isn't all that good!!!!!  "},{"Title":"T-e-r-r-i-b-l-e!!!!!!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst movies i have ever seen (including Eddie Murphy's Holy Man) and seeing it surely was the most wasted hour and a half of my life. Although Dana Carvey is a good impresionist, it doesn't mean a movie should be made about it. The movie had a few funny moments but they couldn't save it from the rest of it. I still don't understand why celebrities like Michael Johnson and Bo Derek agreed to take a part in this HORRIBLE production.  "},{"Title":"So Sad...","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Try to imagine an episode of The Monkees written by someone who didn't get the joke... I LOVE Dana Carvey...absolutely adore him...but this film is a disaster! It's not just that the plot is so ridiculous but that every time Carvey starts to get something funny going, they cut the scene (that one where he's dressed as a woman and flirting with Devlin comes to mind immediately)!!! Extremely frustrating! And I don't know if it's that Brent Spiner is attempting to pull off a Brendon Fraiser with movies like these (taking stuff like Monkeybone for the money so that he can work on Prestige stuff like Gods and Monsters that can't pay much), but if that's the plan...re-think it, please? "},{"Title":"So Awful You Won't Believe Just How Awful","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Comedy Italian accents.Not funny!Calling the main character Pistachio.Really not funny.Who decided this monstrosity was worth making?He/She should go into the garbage business! What genius studio head decided to allow this total waste of talent,energy and resources to be released. Likewise,the garbage business! AAAARGHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!! An insult to even a particularly dim-witted worm's intelligence. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Dana","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I like Dana Carvey, I really do.  In fact, me and my friends were kinda hopin' this movie would do well.  It didn't.  So I saw it.  I'm sorry Dana, but what happened?Amusing characters is one thing, but when the jokes rely on the funny way the characters are saying them, there is something terribly wrong.  I always look for the good in movies and when I saw the delectible Jennifer Esposito (if you like her, check out her work in the little-known, decent indie The Proposal) and multi-talented Brent Spiner, I had hope.  But even they couldn't salvage this movie.A weak plot, stupid characters names, a sheer lack of jokes, and SHAMELESS cameos (they even suckered poor Jennifer Simpson in), all work together to bring this movie down.In closing, yes, Jim Carrey has made a living saying stuff behind funny faces for years... but at least what he's saying is funny.Leaving the ladies smilin',da_flipboy "},{"Title":"Awful but a few brilliant impersonations","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's astounding to observe the striking contrast between staggering genius and sheer idiocy. Most of the movie is laughably and painfully bad, but Carvey shines through in brilliant moments like when he impersonates Pacino in Scarface and Robert Shaw in Jaws. How can such a talented and funny mimic be at once in his element and at the same time so ridiculously unfunny? Dana Carvey was one of SNL's funniest, and he shows he's still got it, he just doesn't seem to have it consistently. "},{"Title":"Shoot Me!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I rented this movie hoping to get a good laugh. Well, that was a waste of good money. In the movie, Dana Carvey a (hardly) lovable restaurant owner's son. When his parents are kidnapped by a dim-witted criminal mastermind, he learns his father is a master disguise artist. To save his parents, he'll have to become a master of disguise.There were a few funny scenes. Dana Carvey as Mr. Peru was kinda funny. I especially liked the parts where Dana Carvey is working with his grandpa. And I loved Carvey's I'm going to be a master of disguise dance. But the rest of the movie was pointless. Most of Dana Carvey's characters, like Turtle Guy, and that little German nerd, rank among the most annoying characters I have ever seen in any movie. The supporting characters did little redeem Carvey's performance. If you're looking for a movie to rent on Friday nights, avoid this at all costs. P.S. What the heck was Jessica Simpson doing with the lunar lander?! "},{"Title":"A Nightmare","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I knew from the trailers that this movie was a disaster. This is why I did not go see it at a theatre. I watched it on video solely for the purpose of supporting Dana Carvey. Dana was brilliant on SNL. I loved the impressions he pulled off. He is very talented. Unfortunately he made a poor choice with this movie. I agree with others who have asked why Carvey needed to make a kid's movie.Nothing makes sense in this movie. Why does Dana's character have a heavy Italian accent if he was raised in the U.S.A.? None of the characters are likeable. Dana's character seemed to be retarded.The fart jokes were plain stupid. How that got in the final product I do not know. All the actors are known names and people I like but this script and production had them all treading in toilet water.I hope this movie does not end Dana's movie career. I see Dana making a come back as a vibrant character actor. He will not make it as a lead actor. Also it would be great if Dana could come back to TV comedy with the right vehicle. "},{"Title":"It's only 80 minutes long","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's sad when the best part of a movie is that its less then an hour and a half.  If you seen the previews, you've seen the movie so don't waste your time on this one.  I think the writers spend too much time in creating all the characters that Dana Carvey's character impersonates and forgot to come up with a halfway decent story to give these characters something to do besides a few lines and then onto the next character.My guess is that Barbra Streisand must have told James Brolin to get a job or get out. That's the only reason I can see him making this movie. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made?","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Imagine the worst SNL skit that just won't die.  Not the slightest bit funny.  Really!  Just dumb.  Not funny dumb, just dumb.  The gags don't work the jokes don't match the setups and dana carvy is an idiot.  I really regret that brint spiner allowed himself to be associated with ths junk. Especially the really bad fart joke. "}{"Title":"Not even brainless fun","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've read some very negative comments on this movie before I watched it, but I tried to keep an open mind. Still, this is one of the worse movies I've ever seen, an utter waste of money. Though it was a senseless `comedy', there was not a single laugh in it. I remember Dana Carvey with a smile, from the `Wayne's World' days, and if he were there today he'd say `I'm having fun.not!' I don't believe this is the end of Dana, I've seen him acting naturally, and he's one hilarious chap. He was just caught with his pants down this time, or worse, with his pants in his hands. I don't think anyone involved in this film had any fun at all, and the after-movie bloopers are just a sham. Better luck next time Dana. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been So Much Better","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The most entertaining part of this movie was the ending credits - not that the credits were bad, they actually were funny, with out-takes and probably one of the longest lingering ending to a movie ever.  Dana Carvey really missed an opportunity to write and make a breakout comedy here.  Unfortunately, the talent of Mr. Carvey is wasted because of too many silly jokes, discongruent scenes, and a pretty flat comedy movie.  There are brushes with attempts at great comedy here, but they are not enough to save this movie.  If only somebody had been really serious enough to spend more time with the script and make it into a focussed, thematic, serious comedy attempt, then this movie might have done a lot better.  Dana tries some new stuff, but experimental comedy is one thing, but using a feature movie to try it out is another.  I made it through the entire movie, including the end of the credits which must mean something, but the movie wasn't as funny as it could have been and some of the characters played by Dana just weren't interesting or enjoyable.  This was a kid's movie that tried to be too grown up about it and failed.  Five out of ten stars "},{"Title":"As poor as it gets","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Can't believe Adam Sandler produced this!  This movie was so bad I was embarrased to watch it with my kids.  My son is 10 and he lost interest after the initial 30 minutes.  All I can say is this is as bad as it gets. The only thing that kept me in the movie was Jennifer Esposito, and it was real close! "},{"Title":"Take your kids to see this, if they insist","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I didn't go into this movie expecting a plot, but I was still terribly disappointed.  I was expecting the plot to make at least a little sense, maybe not be a plot that i cared about, but enough to get me through the movie.  It was full of more holes than Die Another Day, as people just appeared in other places without an explanation. The one redeeming factor of this movie should have been Carvey's impersonations(isn't that really why everyone wanted to see it?), but I found them inane and nowhere near as good as his SNL work.  I look forward to seeing him in a more suitable vehicle where his talents won't be wasted in mindless drivel such as this.   "},{"Title":"Disguised as a funny movie, don't be fooled!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was forcing myself to laugh through Master of Disguise, but then I'm not a little kid who'll laugh at anything.  I love dumb funny movies, but this is just dumb.  I'm a fan of Carvey's SNL work, which is what lead me to rent this (luckily it was an earned free rental!) and give it benefit of the doubt.  The movie lasts a total of 1 hour and 20 minutes, which is why I actually made it through.  The film is slow and unfunny in the beginning, but I thought it would pick up when Carvey started doing characters/disguises...it didn't.  Its sad when the running fart joke is funnier than Dana Carvey.  The film is a HappyMadsion production, which means Sandler was involved, but it didn't help.  Sandler was also involved in Hot Chick, so what.  Dana Carvey and the guy who wrote Deuce Bigalow wrote Master of Disguise.  If you want to laugh, rent Deuce Bigalow.  If you want to entertain the small kids in your family, rent Master of Disguise. Carvey is funny and a skilled impersonator, but in the right context. Master of Disguise never finds that context.  Maybe the movie was meant only for small kids, like Pokemon and anything with Frankie Muniz in it.  If thats the case, I feel dumb for even reviewing it.  I'm not the audience. The problem is Master of Disguise is Dana Carvey and he's never done little kid movies before so why now?  If you must see this for yourself, please rent it.  Don't go spend $17 on a DVD expecting SNL humor, theres none of it here. "},{"Title":"two thumbs down","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I first saw a commercial about this movie i thought it would be funny. Trust me, it's not. All the good scenes are cut out because they are too pg-13ish. Trust me folks I couldn't wait to see it but then I finally saw it and now all i can do is say how dumb and storyless it is. I thought it was supposed to be like austin powers but its more like some cheap disney movie. The only thing good about this is Jennifer Esipito. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I should have known","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Normally, before I watch a movie I look it up here, and check director, actors to see if I have seen anything of their work. This time I didn't and it cost me 1,5 hours watching this crap. I had seen the trailer and it was all right, but the rest of the movie suffers from terrible direction and even worse editing. And I should have known. When I look at the films Perry Andelin Blake was involved with, Happy gilmore is the only one I would consider giving more than a 5/10. Co-writer Harris goldberg gave us the awful Deuce Bigalow.conclusion One of the worst movies I have ever seen, but because I had very few laughs I give it 2/10 instead of 1/10 (it wasn't as bad as blues brothers 2000)  "},{"Title":"Advertisements are the ONLY highlights... get back in your turtle shell.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mindless drivel comes to mind... insult to one's intelligence is another, but I think I will stick with the word 'boring' to describe Master of Disguise.A friend rented Kung Pow Enter the Fist a few months back and I thought of that as the worst movie I had seen next to Star Trek V The Final Frontier... well Master of Disguise takes the cake, or turtle shell in this case. The commercials gave the impression of a very witty and funny Dana Carvey movie that was released about the same time as his friend Mike Meyer's movie, Goldmember. The problem is, the commercials WERE the movie. Any, and all funny material presented in the movie were contained in the 45 second spot that ran on TV. That means 79 minutes and 15 seconds of the movie were a complete waste of time.So much more could have been done with the premise of a 'Master of Disguise', but instead they made the movie into a borefest of awful acting, horrible cliches, and a running fart scene that popped up every time the villain, played by Star Trek's Brent Spiner, laughed and lost control of his bowels.If you wish to be entertained, I would recommend you watch Tombstone, Saving Private Ryan, or maybe endless re-runs of Lost in Space. To quote Dr. Smith from Lost in Space... Oh the pain... oh the pain! Master of Disguise rates a perfect score of ZERO in my book. "},{"Title":"A film that would worked, if it had been a Saturday morning cartoon!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I thought there was going to be a laugh a minute. I actually thought it might be the new Austin Powers.  The preview looked funny and the movie could have been funny if the preview editors made the film instead!The only thing me and my girlfriend found funny was the running fart joke.I was sadly disappointed and recommmend people not seeing this, but if you must, spend no money on it, watch on tv in a year or so. "},{"Title":"one or two good lines, and that's about it","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this movie, and thought it might be good.  I liked Dana Carvey in some Saturday Night Live stuff, and particularly Wayne's World, but this movie didn't cut it.  I think the key to this was that Dana Carvey was the writer for Master of Disguise.  He acts well to well written material, but he's not much of a writer.  Generally, the dialogue just got old and irritating really quickly, and was just not very funny.  He really tended to overdo things that may have been funny for a little while, but they went on longer than they should. "}{"Title":"The critics were right about this one!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  At 65 minutes long, this felt more like 650 minutes after viewing this very unfunny film for 1/2 hour. While Dana Carvey is brilliant as a stand up comedian, he is so BAD and DUMB. The so-called jokes come fast, but none of them are even remotely funny. And the fact that this film grossed over $40 million probably surprises Carvey too. "},{"Title":"A torture to watch from a master to mourn","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Watching this movie is like having a root-canal without anesthetics, while someone is ramming a white-hot poker into your behind. I love Dana Carvey, and I'm convinced he's one of the best comedians around, so I'm simply incapable of understanding how, and why, he could put such a painful failure on the silver screen. To add insult to injury, he also co-wrote the script, which means he has absolutely NO excuses!Have you seen Dumb and Dumber? Well, The Master of Disguise will make it look like The Godfather. Heck, even Battlefield Earth will seem like a majestic masterpiece by comparison! The characters are cliched, flat, and deadly boring, and there is not a SINGLE joke or situation that anybody aged 3 and above will find even remotely funny.I always feel I owe the creators of any movie at least as much as to watch their film from the beginning to the end once I rented it, but this time I actually had to cover my eyes to survive this torture, and ran the entire garbage with the time-counter on-screen to keep my hopes - and thus myself - alive. There is not a moment, not a single scene, not a single character that's interesting. The only part of this movie that's remotely watchable is the opening credits, which do have a certain Indiana Jones/Tomb Raider feel to them - in spite of the fact that it's supposed to be a comedy.Before I've seen it, I thought the critics were overly harsh. I really WANTED to enjoy this movie. I was ready to overlook a lot if it had at least one or two redeeming scenes. Now I can understand why they talk about The Master of Disguise as the worst movie of the year; I'd call it the worst movie of the century. "},{"Title":"Master of Disgust","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pistachio's accent was irritating. Good impersonations turtle man, 'W' Bush and Scarface character. I found a chuckle when Pistachio started dancing and flipping around the dance stage. My, how 'Data' ,Star Trek fame, has fallen! Would have been nice if Pistachio could have played a few more unique characters. Adam Sandler produced this movie?!? "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Truly one of the worst movies ever made. It's not even a movie, but a series of vignettes with Carvey vamping through various impersonations and bizarre characters. Some funny bits, especially Carvey as Quint in JAWS. But he isn't all that funny in the end, and neither is anyone else. The decision to have Carvey and his papa, played by James Brolin, and even his grandpapa, played by Harold Gould, portray weirdly accented Italians is perplexing, until one realizes the whole movie is a shameless, juvenile-to-the-extreme ripoff of THE PINK PANTHER series. For 4 year olds everywhere. Anyone else, beware! A very funny line near the end having to do with Bruce Willis' toupee in a specific movie does not save this disaster. "},{"Title":"The Master of Boredom","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a film for kids only.  Granted, some of Carvey's disguises are funny, but not enough funny enough to save this bomb.  Carvey, James Brolin and Harold Gould all speak with the worst Italian accents imaginable.  Even Brent Spiner is bad as the villain.  Diehard Carvey fans are likely to be disappointed by this one. "},{"Title":"It pains me to say this, but ...","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  It really pains me to say this, but this movie was dreadful. I'm a huge Carvey fan, but I came away from this one very disappointed. Has he lost his touch? I don't think so, but I'm not going to use this movie as evidence to back up my point.This movie was so disjointed, and many of the characters were flat-out contrived and stupid. Carvey's strengths aren't the contrived characters, but his impersonations of real people (could he have done more George W. Bush and less of the turtle?). Other than Carvey, the only redeeming quality for this piece of junk was the fact that it was so short.Four stars out of ten, but two of them are just for Carvey. "},{"Title":"I couldn't Breath!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was halarious. I think this movie was very well done. I was surprised that critics didn't like it. It was great. I laughed at least 19 times! I Love Dana Carvey's acting and I'll see almost anything that he's one of the main charachers in. 10 stars! "},{"Title":"erm....","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  As funny as Dana Carvey tried to be... the movie fell short of his comedic skills. True at times you couldnt help but laugh at some of his antics, it was a really hard movie to believe. And the insistent appearance of the boom mike in a bout half the scenes was VERY annoying.  "},{"Title":"Well Sort of Stupid","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie I saw with some friends and at the end of the movie we all felt kind of empty, it just did nothing for anyone watching it. Dana Carvey is quite funny, but still he was not as good as he could be I think that this movie is worth seeing once and only once after that it should be never seen again, this will not be on my DVD christmas list this year. "},{"Title":"It was terrible","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie through a drive way, it was like a drive through movie and I saw it, and it was terrible movie and the part was ok, but while I was watching the whole thing. It was so terrible of how he plays the guy and the wrost part he said It might work, in a dumb way. I really hated this movie and I give it a thumb down, and feel free to respond and talk to you soon everyone!!! "}{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Disguise was effective, there could have been a 5 minute sketch hiding in there but you would have been hard pressed to identify it. I find it hard to find anything good to stay about this film except possibly the pain didn't last very long. The out takes during the end credits were probably funnier than the film but that isn't saying much. "},{"Title":"A fun good time","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is aimed at kids but I think many adults can get a kick out of it too.  Dana Carvey is always funny on TV or on the big-screen, and it was a treat to see some new material from him.  This film is full of good messages and has a fantasy element to go along with great comedy.  The bonus footage during the credits is very funny.  I can't wait to see what comes next from the comedic mind of Dana Carvey.   "},{"Title":"ha ha ha","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  the stupidest movie ever made, but jennifer esposito is extremely hot. I expected better from Carvey, but not everyone is good at making movies alone. If he and Mike Myers were in it than it might be worth watching. I watched it in disguist and wanted to walk out. "},{"Title":"I wanted to spoon out my eyes...","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  As a loyal Garth fan, I walked in expecting something at the very least, entertaining. I expected silly, but not inane. Nothing was funny or entertaining. Nothing was amusing. All was simply stupid. I didn't laugh ONCE. Why famous stars would cameo in this drivel is beyond me. I think less of Governor Ventura and Michael Johnson now for their participation. LESS than 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not worth it....","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Master of Disguise is a poor excuse for a movie, having almost no plot and like 3 funny scenes. I generally enjoy Dana Carvey but this time I reluctantly must criticize. I enjoy critiquing movies but I don't even remember the plot. It seemed like a television skit that was lengthened to make a film. There were a total of 3 scenes that I thought were funny, but the rest left me groaning. Sorry to say this but thumbs down to Master of Disguise. "},{"Title":"The horror, the horror!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ugh. The only thing keeping me from rating this a 1 instead of a 2 is that I know just how bad movies can be. This movie ellicited a few laughs from my girlfriend and I due to some bizarre dialogue, but the more obvious humor in the movie fell flat on its face. We mostly sat through the film in nervous silence. What were Adam Sandler and Dana Carvey thinking? The fact that this Master of Disguise only really changed into a handful of disguises was also pretty poor. Phil Hartman could do more with his voice than they did with this film. I feel sorry for those of you who will suffer through it. "},{"Title":"Major, Major Dissappointment","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was a terrible movie right from the start, and when it got to the point where I was laughing because of how crappy it was, I simply left the theatre and went and got my money back. I then went and rented another movie, just to get the cappiness that I had just viewed out of my mind. "},{"Title":"Sad, sad, sad...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  It was obvious that a lot of work went into the makeup and costumes for this movie but somewhere it went wrong. I had no idea it was for children until after seeing it but it wasn't even great for them. It had a lot of actors that I usually enjoy but somehow, there was no enjoyment today. I hope Dana Carvey doesn't give up after this flop. I won't even rent this one let alone buy it. Hope they don't make too many copies for distribution. "},{"Title":"Impossible To Disguise Unfunny Movie","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Comedy is one of the hardest arm forms to perfect, and, as all great comedians know, the key is timing. Dana Carvey is a funny guy, but unfortunately the director of this half-hearted effort clearly knows nothing of timing. SNL alum Carvey (Wayne's World) plays Pistachio Disguisey, a well-meaning Italian waiter with an annoying tendency toward slap-stick idiocy. Take for example, an early scene where he trips and dumps spaghetti all over the heads of a wealthy family. He then proceeds to grate cheese on them. If you find this description hilarious, this is a good movie for you. The plot, although completely inconsequential, involves Disguisey's revelation that he is a member of the legendary Disguisey family which means that he has the god-given talent to transform himself into anyone or anything he wants. He uses this talent to find his parents, who have been kidnapped by the evil and flatulent Devlin Bowman. To help him out, he joins with sexy partner Jennifer Baker (Jennifer Esposito, doing her best to save this movie) with whom he has some romantic tension, even though, in his opinion, her butt is too small. That's basically the level of intelligence in this movie. Other winning jokes include gags about cow pies, explosive flatulence, and wearing> underwear on one's head. Blatantly quoting lines directly from `Shrek' serves only as a testament to how few new ideas this movie has. Are there no funny moments? To be honest, there are a few. Carvey pulls off a dead-on impersonation of Robert Shaw's character from `Jaws' in one of the few scenes that hits its mark. Jennifer Esposito puts in a charming performance. And, in what is unquestionably the movie's funniest moment, pistachio quotes from Madonna's `Papa Don't Preach.' But will kids appreciate any of the elements I just mentioned? No, of course they won't. and hopefully, they'll be intelligent enough to not appreciate anything else this tired and unfunny movie throws at them. (*/****) "},{"Title":"The Master of Suck","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  After I saw Scooby Doo at the theater, I never thought I would again witness a movie that topped it for sheer idiocy, lousy acting, and utter lack of inspiration.  Then I saw Master of Disguise.  The only way I can properly describe the effect it had, is to say it was a Freddy Got Fingered-ish string of retarded skits.  It was like an overly long home video.  I can't dump on this movie enough.  I don't need to, where my dumping leaves off, the movie dumps on itself like a baby ruins diapers.  The script was idiotic.  The character Pistachio is an annoying #$%# that Jar Jar Binks would be jealous of.  This is one of the absolute worst movies of all time. DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE.  DO NOT LET YOUR PET DOG WATCH THIS MOVIE.  This review already is more in-depth than the movie's plot.  Don't waste your time or money with this crud. "}{"Title":"VIRTUALLY UNWATCHABLE","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This over budgeted, juvenile piece of cinematic sewage, makes Such Turkeys as Rhinestone, Citizen kane.  My friend's Five year old looked at me mid way through and even said, can we go home now??  UGGGGGHHHHH!!!  What horrors will the Studios unleash upon us next?? "},{"Title":"Not just bad, annoying","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The script is bad and the jokes and slapstick don't work, but the worst part of this movie is the truly annoying character voice that Dana's character uses throughout the movie. It was painful to sit through.The only mildly redeeming aspect was the endless stream of short comedy bites following the credits. They went on for so long and were almost as painful as the movie that my wife and I had to laugh. The movie just wouldn't end. "},{"Title":"A Kids Movie","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love funny, silly movies - but this film just doesn't work if you are an adult. The kids in the audience had a great time, and were laughing at everything. Dana Carvey is wonderful - his characters are great. But the script could have been better, and should have been written to appeal to adults as well as kids. "},{"Title":"This movie is awful!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have seen in years, if not ever.  It is sad that such a good comedian as Dana Carvey should have made this movie. I knew we were in trouble when his father in the movie came out and it was James Brolin, supposedly an Italian!  And, when Data from Star Trek's most important role in the movie was to fart.   Avoid this movie like the plague. The trailer made it seem funny, but the trailer contained EVERY funny joke from the movie, and somehow the jokes seemed a lot less funny in context. This is a real turkey. "},{"Title":"What a Disappointment!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Being a big-time Dana Carvey fan, this movie was such a disappointment. This movie does even more damage to Dana's poor track record of movies.We all know Dana's strengths as a comedian.  He is a great person at performing different characters and impersonations.  So one would think that `The Master of Disguise' is a perfect forum for Dana to showcase his talents.  So what could go wrong?Let me start.  Most have called this a kid's movie.  But is it?  I think others mistake a movie that is SO STUPID that it must be a kids movie. Let's just say it was a kid's movie.  Which I doubt but let's assume that Dana would make the first kids movie he has ever made and let's assume Happy Madison productions decides after about 20 or so movies to make a kids movie.  Why the heck is Dana Carvey targeting kids?????  Do any kids even know who he is?  Do any kids want to go see a kids movie by a guy who was on Saturday Night Live in the 80's?Anyways, here is my opinion of why this movie was terrible.  First of all the main character was a total  imbecile, moron, dufus, man-child, etc. This Character made Pee Wee Herman seem like James Bond.  The character was so idiotic that it wasn't funny.  It was ok for about 5 minutes but he was that way the whole movie.  He was so dorky that I don't believe anyone in the movie theater hoped he would get the hot girl.   Of course he did.Even his disguising wasn't funny.  Let me give a few details on the Turtle Man.  Here's all there was to that gang.  Pistachio (Carvey) found a clue that the bad guy would be at the Turtle Club.  So he thinks the best way to get in is to dress like a turtle.   When he gets in the club do you think he does anything clever?  Of course not &#150; his character is a moron.  Besides standing out like a sore thumb in a high class club dressed like a turtle all this moron does do is say `Turtle' over and over again.  That is it. Oh, yes he lifts his head in and out of the shell a few times.  Picture this a guy in a turtle costume in a high class club lift his head in and out of the shell and saying  `Turtle&#133;&#133;.Turtle&#133;..Turtle&#133;..Turtle&#133;.Turtle&#133;&#133;.' etc. Is that funny?  Sounds like reject material for another Happy Madison movie called the Animal.This is what I think Dana should of done to correct the script.  Do more impersonations, less of the `turtle guy' humor (which is all you get).  He had two somewhat humorous Dana Carvey type parts.  One with Dana as George W Bush and another of Carvey playing the Robert Shaw character from Jaws. But even there it could have been funnier.  But back to my recommendations More impersonations (not two).  And MOST of all the main character should have been played more straight.  Maybe even like his characters from his other movies  Clean Slate or Opportunity Knocks.If  you must see a Dana Carvey movie see the Waynes World movies or even Clean Slate and Opportunity Knocks were better.  Take if from a fan of Dana's from the SNL days this movie was SO DISAPPOINTING.  "},{"Title":"The only thing disguised was the humor","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was a total waste of time, good thing it was also just about the shortest movie I have ever seen.  In a word, it was just not funny!  I laughed out loud twice, I think.  Once for the how many levels are there? question to his grandfather.  The other time I forgot already.  My 11-year-old didn't laugh except at the potty humor (noises) which, as always, indicates a major give-up.  This movie should go to video so it can be burned.  I think Dana Carvey is funny in general but this was a very poor effort.  The trailer is a major spoiler, the turtle costume would have been clever and funny but we already saw it 3 times.  We stayed through all of the out-takes at the end hoping for our money's worth; if you see the movie at least see these.  Jennifer Esposito gave a valiant effort but surely deserved better than this.  Lastly, who would think Dana Carvey is Italian or a young son, he looked very old and very non-Italian (although that may have been another attempt at humor). "},{"Title":"I want my money back........","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ever seen a film that makes you hate life? This one is really close....I'd start off with saying 'spoilers', but the entire film was basically shown in it's trailer. If you saw the trailer, you saw what may have been worth watching. After plopping down my 5 bucks (matinee's are the only way to go these days), I sat down in a nice theatre awaiting a new film by Dana Carvey. I will admit a liking for him, he has made me laugh in the past. I was even willing to look past the fact that he has never shown he can carry a movie, playing smaller parts much better and coming across as less annoying.The movie The movie follows a...well.....retarded 30 year old named Pistachio Disguisee. He's not supposed to be retarded, but there is no other explanation for him. He comes from a long line of Master of Diguise's, but his Papa (James Brolin)elected to hide this from him in order for a more normal life. But the family way was always with Pistachio as he mocked people from the day he was born. His father owns a restaurant where the whole family works and, apparently, other waiters are allowed to keep their jobs while making a fool of Pistachio. Anyway, a long ago bad guy (Brent Spiner) of his father comes back to town and kidnaps the parents and forces Papa to do his bidding by disguising himself and stealing rare artifacts. He does this by threatening Mama (Edie McClurg), who is kept under a drug induced haze. That's when Yoda... I mean Grandpa comes to town. He's never met his grandpa, so he calls him his sister. HAHAHA!! WOW! Wait the Laughs are just getting started. Everytime you see the bad guy, someone farts and stops the entire screen. FUNNY!. Listen, Grandpa teaches him the art of the Jedi...I mean Disguisee, he hires an assistant, Jennifer Lopez, or someone like that. They both go under cover in all sorts of suits and such to find out who's doing the evil bidding...and.....and....URGGH!!!!! At this point in the theatre, the 6 people have dwindled to 2,  me and my mother, who was begging me to take her back to her group home!! I was tempted to, but, it was my weekend with her and we had to do something to pass the time. The rest of the film is filled with pointless story, bad characters that make you cry and shameless hamming by Carvey. Turtle Man made me frightend for the future. The fact that Pistachio only liked woman who had child bearing hips was the only thing I could relate to. The running fart joke made me laugh, but it was because I was farting along with it. Sadly, I left to use the restroom (chaining mother to her chair), came back and found that the movie wasn't over, and yet, I hadn't missed a thing. I couldn't tell if something important happened or not. The best part of the movie is when the credits are rolling and it says something about what type of film they used and shows the little symbols for the companies. That meant it was over and I could go home. SO the morals of this film are Accept the fact that you're not a lead actor, never advertise using the bits that may have been funny if not seen before, and always make sure you see these movies with people that can't run away. Amen. "},{"Title":"best movie of 2002!!!!!!!!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Holy Macoroni!!!!! I absolutely loved this movie of movies. it was magnicicent. In the years that I have existed on this planet, laughter of this magnitude has never exited my body. The laughter came from the depths of my soul. I drained my eyes of the liquid that forms tears. If you were watching me from afar you would probably think I was special because i was what i like to call open mouth wiggling. thats where you laugh so hard no sound comes out, you just wiggle all around with your mouth wide open. It is a beautiful film extravaganza that everyone living at this moment in time should be blessed to experience. The beauty of Dana Carvey and his comedic performance is brilliant. The only performance that comes to mind that possibly exceeds Mr. Carvey's is the hilarious character of oskar schindler played by liam neeson.I absolutely loved master of disguise and strongly recommend it 10/10 for anyone seeking laughter beyond their comprehension of what they believe laughter to be before seeing this movie. One minor note before i leave you to ponder the thought of seeing this movie. You MUST see it on the big screen!!! There is no other way to experience every precious second. that is all    "},{"Title":"3 words","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Worst Movie Ever. Don't even bother wasting your money on this one.  Dana Carvy should be ashamed of himself for this worthless piece of trash.  After 15 minutes I wanted to leave the theater. 1/10 "},{"Title":"WHAT were they thinking?!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Masters of Disguise is awful, and the blame rests squarely on the shoulders of its star and writer (Carvey). For someone so talented to have turned out a movie this bad is unbelievable, but make no mistake about it - this turkey is a tragic waste of 67 minutes of film stock.Maybe it looked good on paper. I assume that this was intended as a vehicle for Carvey's talent for impressions. I expected something like the Seven Faces of Dr. Lao, or homage to Inspector Clouseau. Nope. With no plot, no character motivation, and flatulence jokes as the film's highpoint, this flick deserves a quick death. Jennifer Esposito has a thankless role, Harold Gould plays some weird grandfather-cum-Deus Ex Machina, and James (Mr. Barbara Streisand) Brolin looks virtually embalmed.The costumes, sets, makeup and costumes all point to a big budget, yet this film is so bad, you'd almost think they were making the script up as they went. Carvey seems destined for same fate Eric Idle has suffered through in his post-Python days.Do yourself a favor - wait for this one to hit the bargain rack at your favorite video emporium, then give it a miss.  "}{"Title":"Only a child would find Carvey's performance funny","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This had to have been made for children, because I can't believe that Carvey would think that his sight gags are funny.  Brent Spiner completly upstages Carvey in the comedy department, he at least made me laugh... once.  This movie is completly forgettable.  It is a waste of time and money, and Carvey should be sentenced to public service for the psycological damage he's inflicted on all who've seen this movie. "},{"Title":"you gotta be kidding me","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Simply put, one of the worst movies I've ever seen (Hudson Hawk still tops my list.)  I thought Data was more amusing than Dana, but only because I'm easily amused by fart jokes.  The trailer that I saw for this movie is dishonest... there are scenes/dialogue in the trailer not shown in the movie.Coming here and reading comments on movies usually gives me an idea if a movie will be good or not.  But I did not do so for this movie because I knew that Dana Carvey would not disappoint.  OK... from now on I research ALL movies before hitting the theatres. "},{"Title":"The best part was the credits","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was horrible in almost every way.  The acting was poor, and the characters were very annoying.  The plot was almost nonexistant, and the writers relied on continuing about three jokes throughout the film which were not even funny to begin with.  This is not a film I would recommend to any adult, however the three young children I was with enjoyed it.  If your children want to see it, I would recommend hiring a babysitter to take them, because it is worth the twenty dollars you would spend on the babysitter not to expose yourself to such senseless tripe.  In all honesty the best part of the film was the ending credits, which included funny outtake scenes. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Master of Disguise is a terrible movie that isnt even remotely funny. Its about the Disgusy family, who are all masters of disguise. But Pistachio Disgusy never knew about his heritage because his father elected not to tell him because he thought Pistachio deserved a better life then a life of disguising. When Pistachio's parents are kidnapped, he must learn to use his disguising skills to rescue them.Don't waste your time or money to see this joke of a film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely God awful","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  ( Please note that this review was not written by me, the actual imbetterthanu, it was written by my little sister.) This was the worst movie I've ever seen. It wasn't funny at all, it was just plain stupid. Whoever made this movie probably smells funny, and they are also very stupid. Now you know how i think of the movie. "},{"Title":"Not funny.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I like Dana Carvey, but this was not a funny movie.  In 'my' audience, only the fart jokes got laughs, and then only from the younger kids. I think probably the closing credits were funnier than the movie itself. My only laugh came during the closing credits where one of Carvey's characters was feeding a slice of cheese to a cobra.  Wait for the video; it will be out soon. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Judging by the fact that there are positive reviews of this movie it is obvious that the studios plant comments.  This is hands down the worst movie I have ever paid to see in a theater.  It was worse than 'Showgirls'.  It was worse than Madonna's 'Truth or Dare'. This is not a kids movie that I just didn't get, I love kids movies.  This is not a matter of not liking Dana Carvey, in the past I have loved his work, even the ones that bombed in the theaters.  This movie was just plain awful.  Everyone associated with this thing should be ashamed.  If you take your child to see this you will be insulting his/her intelligence.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst... not from this year... EVER!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can't believe I actually sat through the whole thing.  My 6 year old even thought it was bad.  It is possibly the worst movie I have ever had the misfortune to spend good money on.  I found myself discussing movies like Plan 9 from Outer Space with my wife on the way home.  At least Plan 9 was funny.Dana Carvey is generally funny, and this might have been funny as a Saturday Night Live sketch, but it wears on the nerves.  The character played by Carvey comes across as stupid with few redeeming traits that make you want to see his life get better, and for the most part he doesn't get any smarter.And just like a bad SNL sketch, you wish you could fast forward to the next sketch, unfortunately there isn't one. "},{"Title":"And The 2002 Razzie Award For Worst Picture Goes To...","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Really, to think that Dana Carvey, a master comedian who was part of the best SNL cast ever (any SNL fan can back me up on that one,) was part of such a lousy film. Funniest thing in the film is the villain having a flatulence problem. "},{"Title":"Good clean lame fun","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Dana Carvey is talented, that's a given.  But he cannot seem to get a really decent cinematic vehicle to display this talent - he had his best chance in The Road to Wellville, where he got to create an actual 3-dimensional character.  In Master of Disguise, he plays the ridiculously-named Pistachio Disguisey (the name alone should give you some idea of how lame this film is).  He talks with a silly yet endearing Italian accent, and he puts on lots of disguises in his quest to save his parents, who have been kidnapped by a bad and rotten evil-doer who wants his father to use his disguise mastery to do bad and rotten evil things, blah blah blah.  What else do you need to know?  Get some popcorn and make the best of it.  It's still Dana Carvey in that turtle suit, after all.   "}{"Title":"instantly forgettable","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is half an idea jammed awkwardly into 2/3 of a film. It only runs 68 minutes, and runs out of steam long before that. I laughed slightly only twice, and that was during the 16 minute end credits filled with bloopers. Other than that and Miss Rodriguez, this is a waste of time. Lame jokes are half set up and then delivered almost as an after thought. Dana Carvey just doesn't have the star power to carry even a supporting role. It's a good thing he's backed up by such superstars as James Brolin and Bo Derek. It's about as funny as getting poked in the eye. As memorable as a toothache. Less interesting than your last attack of diarrhea. Still, I'd have to say I was more entertained than I was by Attack of the Clowns, not that that's such a hard thing to accomplish. RATING 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"DISAPPOINTMENT","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hi, I was extremely disappointed in the movie MASTER OF DISGUISE. My 10 yr. old says they kept referring to ladies rears as a consideration when looking for a spouse.  The guy continually passed gas. Every piece of clothing the girl wore showed excessive cleavage- great for boys and girls to look up to don't you think?  Isn't that how we want them to dress? and for the little boys to look for?  RESPECT  At the party they served hors d'oeuvres and I think they referred to the sausage link as comparing it to his penis,I'm not sure it was quick. Towards the end the guy tells the girl I want you to have my babies.  This was not done in class or with taste. It should have been rated PG-13.  The movie theatre was three quarters full of children .  Please respond, I would like to here something from you. SHebert   "},{"Title":"Simply Horrible....","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" As bad as bad can be.  Simply amazing how terrible this movie was...  I am even ashamed to say that I saw it for free.  True, I expected it to be bad, but it surpasses this characterization beyond any movie I think that I have ever seen.  The purest of pure dungus...  Baffling.... Utter spunk.  "},{"Title":"Okay for young kids, boring for adults","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  My 7 year old laughed a lot, especially at the running fart joke (which I laughed at too, must admit). But there is really little here to interest anyone older than that. Carvey's disguises are great, but that's about all there is to this movie. His character is too silly to believe, there is a kid in a superfluous role, the usual babe for love interest, and a lot of general silliness around a wafer thin plot. It's safe for kids if they really want to see it, best to wait for video and save your money. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I first saw the previews, I thought that the movie would be good, but... no. I was really disappointed when I saw it. The movie turned out to be a family film that focused on entertaining younger viewers(Or, well tried). The movie would have been better as an independant movie on a kid's TV network.  70 minutes is pretty short and most of it is the characters rambling on about stuff. The plot is very weak and the characters aren't planned out well. Definately not worth the $6 you pay at the cinema.  Wait untill it airs on cable TV so you can just turn off the TV if you get sick of it. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went to the theater to see this movie and I regret it. It was a waste of money. There were some funny parts but not many. Though I do think it would be funny for little kids or stupid teenagers. This movie was my last hope for a good comedy. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone that I like, but maybe someone I hate. "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid but the kids liked it","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had higher hopes for this being funny, given the trailer, but the acting was HORRIBLE. It was like the writers were sitting around saying what else stupid could we put in?.  My 6 year old liked it though so I guess it was worth it but this is the second worst movie I've ever seen (the worst was Congo). "},{"Title":"Kids deserve better than this","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The saddest thing about flix like this (call 'em Movies for Morons) is that it basically assumes that its target audiences have the brains of mosquitos, and are making films to relate to the mentally challenged.Hey, making general audience/family flix is a good thing, and there are dozens of examples of great recent films that are kid-friendly but don't insult the intelligence of kids or their parents.This one decided not to go in that direction...God knows why. "},{"Title":"An absolutely terrible movie.  VHS by September.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Once again, proof that 5 minute Saturday Night Live skits can't be threaded together to create a satisfying 90 minute movie.  This movie is dreadful. Even the resort to animal gags was terrible.  Much of the funny stuff was in the outtakes at the end of the show.  Really sad. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I brought my sons ages 9 and 12 to see this.  They laughed a couple of times during the opening credits and at the farts - that's it.  This is a case of trying to make a (family) movie with no heart.  If I'd been at home watching this on video I would have made my children turn it off and go do something else.  "}{"Title":"Perhaps the worst movie I've seen in five years","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Some comedies work, and others don't.  This one doesn't.  You can just see Dana Carvey sitting around a table with some prospective producer, Okay, I'll be this guy, a member of the Disguisey family, and we're masters of disguise.  My parents get kidnapped, and I have to use my new found disguising powers to get them free.  There will be a good looking female asistant, of course, and hilarious disguises and scenes.  You'll love it. What I can't visualize, is a producer saying, Yes! What a great idea!Perhaps the emptiness of the comedy in this movie can be summarized by the fact that the biggest laugh they get, and one the movie goes back to perhaps ten times, is flatulence.  Farting.  Wow.  Really funny.  Maybe I am unable to appreciate that kind of comedy any more, but even my eleven year old didn't laugh at that, or anything else.  I didn't even crack a smile.  Not once.  Not for the entire movie.As to the other review that says this movie contains deep social commentary and references to other movies, sure, there are some echoes of other films, but it is meaningless and adds nothing.  I've laughed harder at beer commercials than at this movie.  Do yourself a favor. Save your money.     "},{"Title":"Glory be","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I took my 10-year old nephew to see this whilst on holiday in the US. Either he's more mature than his years or the film-makers have seriously underestimated what people will find funny. Dana Carvey doing his own thing, the fart noises, etc - my nephew asked to leave after 30 minutes. A joke heard once is funny, a joke replayed over & over again is boring, and a poor joke replayed over & over again is insulting. Credit people with some intelligence, film-makers - if you want to make something that panders to the ego of particular actors with almost total disregard for the quality of the film as a whole, then advertise it as that & your audience will be selected/selective accordingly. This was a waste of money to make & a waste of money to watch. "},{"Title":"Very disappointed.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Horrible movie, not even funny. Ended up getting our money back and leaving. The kids around us laughed a little bit, but after 20 minutes or so, even they grew bored and got up. Best parts of the film were in the trailers. "},{"Title":"Terrible.  Absolutely terrible.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't think I'm capable of expressing just how truly awful this film was. It's a total mystery to me as to how it was ever made.The storyline was inane, ludicrous and just plain weak.  After the first 20 minutes or so, I thought that the 'set up' was talking way too long, but then nothing followed it!  I like Dana Carvey, and would have liked to have liked this film, but it wasn't possible - it had no redeeming qualities whatsoever (with the possible exception of Jennifer Esposito).I'm trying to recall one moment when I laughed and am singularly failing. I generally like silly humour, but there was nothing here that was remotely risable.The impressions were good (particularly the Al Pacino), but some were pointless.  What the heck was that turtle thing all about?  How did the writers and producers ever contemplate for one moment that there was going to be nothing amusing about a man in a turtle suit.Really, really terrible.  Maybe Dana can't carry a film on this own - perhaps teaming up with Adam Sandler (executive producer on this travesty) for a future venture may be the best he can hope for. "},{"Title":"Stupid Stupid Stupid","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  We went to the drive in last night to see this.  Which Signs was playing on the other screen and me and the wife would have liked to switch but the boys 7 and 5 would not have got that one.  I like Dana Carvey movies and I like a lot of the stuff the kids watch.  I can even handle sponge Bob  but this was just stupid even more stupid then Sponge Bob Square pants. "},{"Title":"Not a very good film.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I took my two children to see this film at the drive-in after they had been inundated with the commercials for a few weeks on the Cartoon Network and Nickelodean.  They loved the scenes involving the Turtle Man that we have all seen in the broadcast previews. Unfortunately, this scene as played in the actual film has moments in the trailer that are not in the movie. These happen to be the moments they found the most amusing. This was disappointment number one for them.Disappointment two was that the film wasn't that good -- and they barely laughed throughout it. I myself felt lucky the film seemed to only last for about an hour.  Then the credits seemed to roll on for almost as long as the actual film showcasing outtakes and additional scenes. It was rather obvious from watching these outtakes and additional tidbits that entire scenes and sequences where removed from the film. Lucky for us they were excised, unluckily they were left in the credits.The saving grace for the entire night was that this was a double feature with Stuart Little 2, which they did enjoy quite a bit. "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I recently went to see Master of Disguise, Dana Carvey's new movie. I put the word movie in quotes because I think the word exposé would better encompass the thing that I saw. Countless times during the show I found myself asking What the f***? Nevertheless, it was incredibly humorous. At times I didn't know if it was a kid's movie or if it should have had a higher rating that it's PG. It left me dumbfounded and confused, yet delightfully elated. I agree with the guy above when he saysOne cannot begin to hopefully comprehend or decipher all the psychological & stereotypical boundaries this film breaks. It is a surprise to find this film in mainstream theaters as a film on this level & caliber would normally only be found in the finest arthouse theaters. If you plan on seeing Master of Disguise, I suggest keeping your afternoon free, as after viewing, no after witnessing it, you'll need the rest of the afternoon to invest in deciphering the dense narrative.If humor is caused by the momentary break down of logic in our brains or surprising results, this movie takes full advantage of each of these. It definitely had the feel of Dana Carvey, reminiscent of his short-lived TV show. I highly recommend it, since few others probably will.  "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  i went and saw this the night it came out (dont know why), it is easily the worst movie that's come out in a long time, chud 2 was more entertaining. even tho this was meant as a children's movie i wouldnt think even children would find it funny "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I liked this movie alot. It wasn't that funny, but it's a good family movie. The flatulence joke (the biggest running gag in the movie) was actually funny! Also the best disguise was Terry Suave. This is what you're doing. This is what I want you to do. One of the best lines I've heard in a movie in awhile. My only complaint is that Pistachio's grandfather was a tad bit mean. The scene near the end with the cherries and how it's a takeoff on action movies was very cute. All in all, go see this movie with no expectations and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A tour de force","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  He may play a master of disguise, but there's no disguising the fact that Dana Carvey has a date with Oscar next February. Oooooof! Genius hardly begins to describe Mr. Carvey's bravura yet subtle acting style. At one point I thought I was watching an actual Turtle Man! Brilliant! See it again and again! "}{"Title":"Not all SNL graduates get a degree in film.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  As much as I may have liked Dana Carvey on SNL, this movie is a very poor display of his talent.  Dana has been dealt some bad hands lately with his smart comedy show being prematurely cancelled, his heart surgery mishap, and being out of the public spotlight for so long.  His other SNL friends are making money, so why not him too?The movie was just an excuse to dress up and act silly, and the characters are not some of his better ones.  Much of the jokes were references to pop culture, a cheap trick that will date the movie very soon.  The only laughs from the audience were the cheaply low reoccurring fart jokes.  The plot was incoherent and it jumped around too much the editor must have been drunk.  The outtakes and gags while the credits were rolling would make even Jackie Chan woozy.On a positive note, this movie was very clean.  There were a few minor PG jokes, but this movie could be shown unedited on TV.  In an age where crude jokes are the norm to get a laugh, this movie, for the most part, avoided it.  Kids might find it amusing, but that's about it.  I so wanted him to be funny, but too bad the movie is just...well...bad.  "},{"Title":"An inept waiter finds he has inherited the role of Master of Disguise and must fight evil and injustice.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I rate this extremely silly movie highly because my kids (ages 6 and 9) loved it. It also contains fairly harmless fun featuring some slapstick slapping and a recurring fart joke. There is no cursing.I like Dana Carvey, but had trouble enjoying this film during my initial viewing as I kept trying to make sense of the absurd plot. During subsequent viewings (Those with kids know what I mean), I gave up on that, and I too found myself looking forward to each ridiculous Carvey incarnation.Some of the characterizations are classic Carvey that have been shoehorned into the plot (Al Pacino's Scarface as a disco dancer, Robert Shaw from Jaws), while others are just over the top silly (Turtleman!). But like I said, kids love it. It's the sort of innocent fun that allows you to leave the room guilt free if you don't like Dana Carvey. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy, but I liked it...","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  But before you chalk this up to being just the ramblings of a madman, a child or both, I would like to assure you that I am a 24 year old male with a broad sense of humor. I can't believe The Master of Disguise got such harsh reviews. It opened in Denmark nearly a year after it did in America so I had plenty of opportunities to read the bad reviews. But I decided to ignore them and to form my own opinion. I went to see it with my sister and I genuinely liked it. Word must have got around, because we were the only ones there, but on the other hand it was one of the smaller theaters in a multiplex cinema on a workday. Actually it added to the whole experience because we could laugh as loud as we wanted. And boy, did we laugh. There were so many funny scenes like The Turtle bit and the all too specific pop-up book, not to mention the slapping dummy. I especially enjoyed the references to other movies like when Grandfather Disguisey shows up Father Merrin style or when Pistachio shows up at Bowman's party disguised as Tony Montana. Another thing I liked was the cameos by for instance Bo Derek. I thought it was a great movie. The characters were both well cast and acted, furthermore I found that all the jokes were well carried out and none of them fell flat, not even Devlin Bowman's flatulence. It's nearly impossible to miss with a good fart joke.What can I say? Sometimes you just can't rely on critics. I can't wait to see Malibu's Most Wanted. I know it too got some harsh reviews but I don't care. I've seen the trailer and it looks good to me. I'm going. Even if it doesn't open in the Danish theaters. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The 'Jaws' and 'Scarface' jokes alone, are worth to see this movie. Primarily targeted at a younger audience, 'Master of Disguise' is a comedy that won't offend anyone and it's got its moments of genius.Dana Carvey does an out of this world impersonation (quite literally) of Al Pacino in Scarface and a lot of other interesting ones too. Spiner proves once more that he is a genuine comical talent, as the likable villain.Dana Carvey is worth so much more, but 'Master of Disguise' isn't bad. If you've got kids, they'll love it.10/10 (Out of respect for Dana) "},{"Title":"The best impression ever","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hey C'mon guys... this movie is great... it has about a dozen moments that would make you laugh to death.Dana Carvey is a fantastic comedian...He does a lot of impressions in the picture that make the movie worth of a higher grade... about 7, I'd say.And... the scene from Jaws... almost made me laugh to death.Also, the actresse that shares the screen with Dana Carvey... as well as Brent Mr. Data Spiner, made a good supporting crew.I believe most people thought this should be a more serious comedy, more intelectual... but, no... it's just simple and good jokes...C'mon... you guys should evaluate this movie better...Funny, very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Stupid goof ball film that shows how low Dana Carvey has sunk","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" After great movies like Wayne's World and it's sequel, I was happy to watch Master of Disguise to see how Dana could show off more of his acting talents. Oh my gosh! This film is too childish and stupid for adults and no kids under five would like this film. To many baby scenes like with Dana falling onto his grand papa inside a fat suit that has blown up over it's usual weight. The disguises are all unique but some are too stupid, like take the German with the big teeth! Dana is not funny at all with his stupid impressions and his goofy jokes that are not funny at all. A few scenes are good like the Mr. Peru scene, I liked that which is a homage to Scarface's Tony Montana. But the villain is too predictable and he has a stupid farting problem, his henchmen are to dull, and the whole idea of coloring the movie to match it's main actor for purpose was just too idiotic. Can you kill ninjas by slapping them, can Jesse Ventura steal the liberty bell, are there masters of disguises? NO! This film is pure rubbish, skip this film. You will be happy without it. Bad Dana Carvey, bad! "},{"Title":"The Master of Disguise!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The Master of Disguise is a fair comedy film that has a good cast which includes Dana Carvey, Brent Spiner, Jennifer Esposito, Harold Gould, James Brolin, with Erick Avari, Jessica Simpson, Bo Derek, Paula Abdul, and Jesse Ventura! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Carvey is really excellent in this film. I thought that he had an excellent performance! Gould and Spiner also have good performances! The comedy is really good. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good as well. The film is quite funny and some of the stuff is just so hilarious. Currently this film has 2.8 at 10 stars and is at the bottom 100 #57. In My opinion this movie doesn't deserve it because its just plain silly and there isn't many films like this one. This is a fair film. If you like Dana Carvey, Brent Spiner, Jennifer Esposito, Harold Gould, James Brolin, the rest of the cast in the film, Comedies, and Action then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"What The Hell?","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, this movie was funny. Not very funny, but funny. But seriously, what the hell kind of movie is this? Dana Carvey is a very funny comedian, but this performance was sort of sad. Dana Carvey did funny characters such as The Turtle Guy, Gammy Num Nums, The Mumbo Guy, and an impersonation of George W. Bush, but really, he acted like a stupid idiot; and his female assistant is played by Jennifer Esposito?! Come on, she sucks! She has no FREAKING talent! Then there are so many other great actors/comedians Brent Spiner, Edie McClurg, James Brolin, and Harold Gould. They also play stupid idiots! It's pathetic! But Brent Spiner had funny moments when he kept farting when he laughed, though. There also more stupid idiots in this movie, too the guards who are protecting the rare items! I can't believe they are that stupid to trade a rare artifact for something stupid like an action figure. Get real!I recommend this movie to anyone with a very, very good sense of humor. Because the ones with a good sense of humor are the ones who'll laugh.7/10 "},{"Title":"Bad....","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Gave this 4/10...because I just gave Once upon in Mexico a 3...and it wasn't much better...Overall, this movie had some semi-funny parts, but overall it was just kinda dumb... "},{"Title":"a series of SNL skits","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie seems like it is made up of skits edited together.  Dana Carvey does a lot of impressions of different characters.  I liked him as the turtle and impression of Robert Shaw from Jaws.  It is funny, but the movie really has no plot.  But it is made just to make us laugh and I think it accomplishes that at times.We get several cameos from Bo Derek, Michael Johnson, and Jessica Simpson.  Pistachio's dad is forced to disguise himself as these people to steal priceless items for the evil guy.  It is just so silly that it is funny.   But the fart joke with the evil guy was just too annoying because it was done too much.FINAL VERDICT  I liked it; it made me laugh. It certainly won't stimulate any brain cells, but at least it is entertaining. "}{"Title":"They showed all the good scenes on the trailer.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Spoiler!!The problem with this film is that they showed all the good scenes on the trailer.  It was not a bad movie, but they ruined the surprise of the funny scenes.  It had a lot of stupid humour in it.  I would not say it was a kids' movie.  I especially liked the part where he disguised himself as Tony Montana (Scarface).  This is one for renting not seeing it on the big screen.  5/10   "},{"Title":"If you don't get the jokes in this movie...check your","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  hearing aid and glasses, because it's served to you on a silver platter, with neon lights and showgirls in gold paint repeatedly singing the joke to you.  This is a movie for those who really don't pay that much attention to movies, they might like the jokes, however...it gets really monotonous after a few short minutes.  I thought that only one part was good, and that was after the hairy guy.  You'll know what I mean when you see it.  The rest was boring and stupid.  As for jokes being over your head...I suppose you are mentally very short.  I wouldn't waste my money unless I brought small children...then I would be able to give just the right ammount of attention to the movie to actually enjoy it.Olivia "},{"Title":"what a piece of crap","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" OH MY GOD, this movie was a piece of crap. It made no sense and was completely stupid and pointless. I like Dana Carvey from Waynes World but I hated this movie so much cause it sucked more than brussel sprouts and It was way stupider than any movie I ever saw in the whole wide world. Damn it I can not bare this gay movie because it was so dumb, stupid, gay, weird, and disturbing in every singel way. All the bad words describe this stupid movie. Did I mention that this movie was so stupid? Yup I did. No wonder, it is. Who ever liked this movie is weird in all ways. If you did u are very, very, very, very, very constipated. "},{"Title":"You can't over think this movie.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie may not be the greatest movie ever but I got a kick out of it when i watched it.  Basically it was so stupid it was funny. If you are a person like me that likes stupid movies you will enjoy this one.  It's the kind of movie you watch when you are bored on a friday night. "},{"Title":"This is a great film for the whole family","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, here's the thing. If you want a movie to enjoy with the whole family, this is it. My four-year-old son laughs and laughs along with the rest of us at the silliness of it all. Dana is great, all his disguises are funny, and it is neat to watch him do so many in one film. Brent Spinner is really a gas as the villain. The love interest in the film is good too. The film is worth watching many times. And watch for a reference to a scene in Ace Ventura two. Ace, says, let me introduce you to my little friend. There is no foul language. Furthermore, the cinematography is brilliant. The sound engineering is impeccable, especially the Brent Spinner sound effects. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Great movie except false Bush-asslicking","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" OK. First off The only bad thing in this movie is the short scene where the main actor plays GW Bush.Bear in mind this flick was produced (paid-for) by Sony Entertainment USA.Of course, their headquarters (boss-etage) are in Japan, which still bears a grudge against USA because of Pearl Harbour and Hiroshima/Nagasaki.But Japan was allied to the German Nazis, and USA had to defeat fascist Japan in those times. Much later, in the 60ies and 70ies only, America became corrupt and abusive in the Corean and Vietnam wars, which were unnecessary like the later Bush Senior and Bush Junior propaganda money oil wars. Both Bushs caused the biggest economical crisis in mankind's history, bigger even than 21 and 24 in Germany.Because of Bush alone, who let 911 happen in spite of some 10 warnings and 5 FBI investigations prior to 911, crushed by the Bush administration to have a reason to cease Saddam's oil, because Cheney found out USA's oil would soon run out, as well as the Saudi arabian oil, because of Bush alone, USA is now filled with poverty and racist hatred, a very bad development.The main actor, master-disguised as GW Bush, retrieves the stolen constitution from crook Devlin Bowman, after which the latter is thrown into the pool by that faked GW Bush.Therefore, GW Bush is displayed positively, as a hero in this movie.The whole rest of the movie, foremostly the main actor's impersonation of not only Robert Shaw's Jaws role, but also of Peter Sellers doing an Indian chap, as well as Peter Sellers playing a female role (you foool), and some other persona clichés, is just great.This movie is good, but sadly, and be it only in a really short scene, it had to pay tribute to the former awkward US president GW Bush, which like his father is a complete idiot.I personally don't care for people who don't share my political view.What I say here and how I see it all is the truth, and nothing but it. Anyone contradicting me is simply wrong.The first commentator was embarrassed about many other negative comments. If that big number of negative comments is not based on the much too positive, slimy GW Bush scene, I don't agree to the majority of other commentators. Anyway, American people are known nowadays for a long time already to be totally, helplessly stupid, because under-educated.The slapstick including structural violence also in this movie is one sign how the American crowd is made to laugh By primitive, violent, in fact not funny jokes, which are only funny because of the scenery, the music and cutting of the movie.And why Brent Spiner never EVER alludes to his Data Star Trek role, is out of comprehension. Would that be too much dis-illusion for the average, dull and racist American crowd? Probably, yes. Those repeated fart-jokes are really not so funny after some time, anymore.It depends what the other criticizers refer to in their critics. I think most people are too stupid to judge anything. And I think, oh, I'm lying; I KNOW that I am high above the average IQ of most people.Cheerio to all people who think and see as I do. Live long and prosper and ciao! "},{"Title":"If Hell has movie theaters, this is what they show there","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" My friends and I have a tradition called bad movie night. It's self-explanatory we take turns finding a terrible movie, and we watch it and laugh our butts off at how crappy it is. When one of my friends showed up last night with this affront to all that is good and decent, we received much more than we bargained for.The jokes are terrible, even if you're 100% wasted. The dialog is lame at best, and actively painful at worst. The acting itself is sub-sub-par; as you watch you get the impression that all of the actors (aside from Dana Carvey, of course) are genuinely p*ssed off that they are in the movie at all. The only redeeming quality this movie has is that it is really, really short, but this is negated by the fact that those 80 minutes will feel like an eternity.If jokes that were never funny in the first place being repeated up to 8 times is your thing, look no further. If standalone fart noises - that is, an out-of-place fart noise unsupported by any action or dialog whatsoever - can make you laugh, this is definitely your film. If you absolutely hate your kids and want a divorce, grab this for a great family movie night... as for my friends and I, the second the store where we bought this last night opens we're going to try and get our 6 bucks back. "},{"Title":"A must see film......","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" ....if you are a boy aged between 4 and 10. At this age boys do not need to be lobotomised as they are already that daft. Every joke, skit and look is aimed at this age range and if that's too much for your sophisticated adult brain then shame on you. It was a joy to watch my 3 sons laughing and enjoying themselves so much. Dana Carvey's geek character is one that all small boys can relate to (trapped as they are in their own sometimes unresponsive bodies) and being the totally stupid good guy who wins, for me sends a better message than other kids movies that say the biggest bombs win.Who's the Daddy? Dana Carvey must be one for sure. "},{"Title":"Bad plot, but extremely funny.","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay...so The Master of Disguise doesn't have the greatest plot.  But just because a movie doesn't have a good plot does not always mean that it isn't good.  The Master of Disguise is a comedy movie.  That's what we have to look at it as.  The majority of all comedy movies don't have very good plots-mostly because their meant to be funny-not to have a good plot. I've watched The Master of Disguise a minimum of 25 times, and I still enjoy watching it.  The humor never gets old.  So give The Master of Disguise a break, people...it's a comedy, not some action-adventure movie. "},{"Title":"Come on guys this film was damn funny.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ill admit that theres a lot of slapstick humour here, but it was Very funny, I can only assume that its because of the yankee sense of humour which only seems to understand certain types of humour, so U dont get a lot of English humour like Fawlty Towers, the many Monty Python films, Benny Hill, Frank Spencer in Some Mothers do 'ave 'em, Steptoe and Son - The list in endless.All I can say is that this film does NOT deserve to be listed in the worst 100 films.Its people like you that stopped Serving Sara to be released in this country, even though I have watched it and found it thouroughly enjoyable too, not quite as hilarious as this film but close.  "}{"Title":"The Funniest Movie of The Year.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think that this movie was really funny. At first i was not interested in it, but my friends made me go, and when i saw it, I went to go see it again next time. This movie was a really funny comedy, and i think that everyone should see it. This movie is two thumbs up. I think that the movie would probably be the funniest movie of the year.  Go see it, and trust me you will like it, because it is hilarious, and incredibly funny!!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I really liked Master of Disguise.  It was a great family movie.  I was so glad to see Dana Carvey back on the big screen after all the problems he's had.  I think people should give Dana SOME credit.  Afterall he DID make the movie for his children.   "},{"Title":"A fun fluffy movie for the kid in all of us","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok, first of all for the person who made the comment about the positive comments being proof of studio plants, I am not, I repeat, am not a studio plant. Good got that off my chest. Now on to the movie.  I laughed so hard, why you ask did I laugh so hard if the plot was fairly weak, and the characters not developed?  Because I didn't go to see some meaningful plot with amazing Oscar winning performances, I went to see Dana Carvey do what he does best, make me laugh!!!  It's kind of sad when our society needs either foul language, sexual content, or blood and gore to really get them excited(I mean come on, how much more plot and character development does Austin Powers have?) Anyway, some are going to get all upset because, how could I compare Austin Powers to this little movie, well let's see, Austin Powers is mostly about Mike Myers doing his schtick, except he has crude language, sexual innuendo and violence, Master of disguise is abot Dana Carvey being funny with very little sexual stuff(ok I know I know there ARE some scenes, but even that dosen't compare to Austin's blatent stuff) and some slapstick type violence(forgive the pun) Anyway, if you are a kid at heart, are a kid or have kids I think you'll like this movie. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"   In a world of horrible movies(rainman,braveheart,pulp fiction) you need a good movie once in a while. That's why this flick is so great. Whoever doesnt like it has a few screws loose and this movie should definetly win best picture at next years academy awards with no-contest whatsoever. 10 out of 10 for excellence. Great plot too! "},{"Title":"Classic Dana Carvey, Hysterical Family Fun","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  The only way that you can't enjoy Dana Carvey is if you take yourself way too seriously, you have absolutely no sense of humor, or you've been jaded by the junk spewed from the bowels of Disney and other movie houses that mass produce flicks that purport to be entertaining. From his days with Saturday Night Live, when he kept audiences in stitches with his rendition of Church Lady and Hanz and Franz, Dana Carvey is, hands down, one of the best comedians, and this movie has been long in coming.Compared to the summer's other highly touted offerings for kids -- Lilo & Stitch, Scooby Doo, Crocodile Hunter, et. al. -- The Master of Disguise wins, hands down. Not only was it truly targeted toward its audience with a lack of cursing, but the crude humor that accompanies any SNL's performance was far enough over the head of the kids in the audience that only the parents were laughing.Obviously, the movie wasn't intended to have a plot that will garner any Oscar nominations. That was never the point. It's mindlessly stupid, which is what Dana Carvey is all about. But when you enter the theater, you know that. So you sit back with your drink and your candy, take a deep breath, and get ready to laugh your way through the entire thing, which is exactly what all 9 of us did.Thanks, Dana Carvey, for giving my kids and me one good laugh at this movies this summer before heading back to school. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted, sweet fun!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I found this movie to be funny, fun, light-hearted, cute, and entertaining. If you are a kid or a kid at heart (as I am), you will enjoy this one.I laughed out loud on several occasions, and I left the theater with a good feeling.My husband went to the theater with no expectations, and we left glad that we had given Master of Disguise a try.  And, no, we didn't go just because of the kids.  We are both adults, and we don't have any kids.  We just enjoy seeing good, wholesome movies.If you are hard hearted or the type who doesn't like goofy movies, you may not like it.  But I personally enjoyed it tremendously! "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't know what everybody is talking about. I'm 18 and in college and I'm still watching the movie and I think it's hilarious. I've seen it way more that any other movie out there. People just need a sense of humor and not be so serious. Obviously the acting isn't incredible but it's just clever enough to be freaking hilarious. I've never met anybody who doesn't think this movie is awesome. I'm just gonna write about random crap now cause I think that 10 lines is kind of ridiculous. I couldn't even write 10 lines about a classic like Mr. Bean. I can say what I want to say about a movie in about 4 lines. and there we go. "},{"Title":"Turtle! Turtle!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Hahahahaha!!!!!!!!!!! The Master of Disguise starring Dana Carvey is arguably one of the funniest motion picture releases of 2002! This movie is like an amusement park ride from start to finish - there's funny stuff all over! There's the dummy that says, I'm your daddy. I'm your daddy. I'm your daddy. I'm your daddy. (That's because Pistachio was saying, Who's your daddy?) Also, I like the turtle suit and the way Pistachio said, Turtle! Turtle! LOL Plus, all of the disguises were so funny and so clever! To those who hate this movie, let me quote This is what you're doing right now; This is what you need to do! Excellent. Marvelous. 10 stars! Wonderful! "},{"Title":"Why is it in the Bottom 100?","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I actually came on this page of IMDb to see how HIGH the score was. I thought it would be in the 7's. How wrong I was! But does it really deserve such a low score? The answer is no in my opinion. This was a freaking hilarious movie and Dana Carvey did a really great job in his role. Sometimes it was a little goofy but that's Dana Carvey's style. I don't know why people hated it. I happen to love it and I think a lot of the little ones will enjoy it as well.So if your looking for a funny movie with cute humor I think you'll enjoy it. I mean, I did. Ignore all the other comments because they obviously don't know what they're talking about. I think they had it confused with The Notebook. "},{"Title":"The most amazing film in the world!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" The only way that you couldn't find this movie as funny as most people is if you live in a cave and your name is bin laden. Fair enough you need a specific taste, but if you liked the Wayne's world films and Saturday night live, you will truly appreciate this film for what it is, the one most innovative, most extravagant, most excellent film in the history of the world!!!! So if you don't like it, don't comment, and find yourself a girlfriend if you can!! Good Luck with that! Dana Carvey is a god to all middle aged men and child alike, if you can't, don't or won't find him funny, you don't deserve to have ears or eyes!!!!!!! I think that you all deserve to be shot, but that is my personal opinion!!! I've been Daniel Sherwood and you've been magnificent, thank you and goodnight!!!! "}{"Title":"Such a great film!!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Hilarious!! Such a great film!!! When I first saw Master of Disguise I was a little taken by surprise at the amount of slapstick comedy, and felt it went too over the top at times, as I had had doubts that this film was a little too young for me. But then I watched it again properly and it grew on me. I found that I enjoyed Dana Carvey's performance and realised that this film was funny, better than that. Harold Gould was the balance back from the comedy though also inputted some himself which I found was well put in. Brent Spiner as the bad guy was a perfect match and played his part brilliantly opposite Carvey, Gould and Brolin. This film was brought to its great level by the story and the way it appeals to children and Carvey's character with his simplicity. I also think this film was one of the great ways to allow Carvey to use his talent of impersonation in the big screen. I had personally not heard of him before this film and am now finding myself looking for more of his work. I have now watched the film quite a few times and still enjoy it. Anyone who has a great and slightly weird sense of humour like me should find it a laugh very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not even half as bad as it looked.","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I guess most people watching this film will be expecting some sort of cross between Carvey's Blank Slate and his role of Garth in Wayne's World.Unfortunately this movie is aimed at 8-12 year old kids and so fans may be disappointed. The jokes are usually immature sometimes and mainly consist of Carvey disguising himself as different wacky characters and doing impressions. Here is where the problem lies. While the impressions range from good (Tony Montana) to hysterically funny (Quint from Jaws) to downright surreal (Turtle Turtle) the plot in between and the actual jokes are a little on the poor side.The biggest problem is the editing. The third act in particular seems to have about 15 mins of plot sliced out of it and there are some noticeable holes in the story. In fact the whole ending seems to have not been completely filmed. This makes an already silly movie very difficult to follow at times and the film ends at just under 77 mins.Many of these faults could be attributed to the fact that the film is aimed at pre-teens, however in this case they have no excuse. Most of the cast are good comedic actors and watching this film you can see the humour trying to get out, you know this film could have succeeded if they had just tried a little harder.Instead we are left with a film that will make you laugh if you watch it with your kids, but will never fully entertain anyone, not even the audience it was intended for. 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The BEST, well. my comments are...","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  All right, I watched this today hoping to find the humor that Dana is known for, and I was sadly disappointed, OK, granted I was not expecting Waynes World.. but I think it could have been better.. who knows, I think it was a sign of the pending doom when I saw it was a Happy Madison production.. (that is for another time) His impressions were always the reason I watched him on SNL.. (Saturday Night Live for those who are Comic impaired) I also agree with another comment about studios wasting money on people that were huge in SNL without seeing a script.. had they read this one the movie might not have been made. and as a hard core Trekkie I found Brent Spiners role.... intriguing.. to say the least.. and the fart jokes.. OK.. the first couple made me laugh.. but I was really expecting them to go somewhere.. HA..Oh well I had to give it a 10 just to save it from the bottom of the list, but a 4 may be more than it deserves  "},{"Title":"Come on, guys, it's a kid movie, not 007!!!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I am disappointed in everyone who voted negatively against thismovie.  I hadn't seen it in the theater, but saw Dana Carvey on TheView talking about it, so I rented it.  He said he wrote it for 8 yearold kids!  Come on, guys, it's AWESOME for that age group.  In fact,my 4 year old and 7 year old LOVED it!  They watched it 7 times in5 days!  (Please don't take offense at this, I don't usually let themwatch that much TV, but they really loved it.  I probably won't buy itfor that very reason!)  My 4 year old son still quotes Pistachio all thetime and just laughs and laughs!  He keeps asking, Mom,remember that part in Masters of the Sky?  So, all you peoplewho are dissing this movie, just stop it!  Go analyze dramas andthrillers and leave the great people who are making good kidmovies alone! "},{"Title":"A bit kiddish, but it has it's moments. Hats off to Dana for a great family movie","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Dana Carvey was very smart for bringing a movie to the screen like this. Barely ever to SNL veterans do family comedys, but Dana Carvey(SNL, Wayne's World) did. This movie is a bit kiddish in the jokes at times, but it has it's moments. The audience in the screening of this film laughed at a lot of hidden adult jokes, like the Geoge Bush stuff(in SNL, Dana Carvey used to impersonate the elder Bush, in MASTER OF DISGUISE, at one point he does the new Bush). Anyway, even though I doubt very much it'll do first at the box office(my theory will be goldmember, or a very close SIGNS at 1st, and Master of disguise 3rd), I'm still glad Dana could make a great kids movie, without a lot of unneccesary things in films that give it a PG-13 rating. There are a lot of films that would be great family movies, that are loaded with PG-13 material. I'm not saying all the movies should be family, I just hate when there is a really stupid kid movie, I mean take Stuart Little 1 or 2, which could be rated g, and right at the end of the first they throw in language, to give it a pg rating. They didn't even have to do that. Same with pg movies jipped to pg-13. Sometimes you don't need to do it, moviemakers, when it clearly is a kids movie, and filmmakers try to throw in things to make it pg13, when it's kiddish, and no teen's going to go see it anyway, so they're stuck with 6 year olds, going to see pg-13s! I hope that more people realize, that some movies are adult, and some are family. Don't throw things in family movies that don't need to be there, just in hopes of getting older audiences. They're still not going to go see it. But take my advice. See master of disguise, either in theaters, or on video. I saw the screening a few weeks ago, and I did laugh. Not a whole lot, but I laughed.2.5/5 STARS  "},{"Title":"I become another person by Hindu magic becoming another person","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Pistachio is a real nut case in this film. But once he observes his Grandfathers advice he quickly learns how to become another person. Using Hindu magic he learns to become another person. Once he becomes another person then he can pursue being a Master of Disguise. This movie seems kinda like the dumbest re-make of Mission Impossible ever. Becoming another person to stop the world's most flagellate man from collecting art in the form of rare political articles seems to be the movies objective. Data from the movie series Star Trek Next Generation needs to be using the political form of propaganda used by Portugese and Spanish talk shows to model for Beano. (Ohio State's political and congressional gas buster of choice.) "}]