[{"Title":"James Bond meets Rocky Balboa with **** stunts","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"93 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" For plot, xXx rates a 1.For acting, a 0.For action, a 10.This movie is unbelievably stupid, but somehow people (including me) like it. Just watch it, take it for what it is, and go with the flow. Vin Diesel plays an extreme protester recruited by The Man to accomplish some vague mission. Don't get too concerned about the mission, or anything else for that matter. Anything resembling a plot is present only to justify the explosion or parachute jump or whatever impossible physical challenge the stunt-masters have come up with. Just be happy you rented this instead of paid to see it in a theater. Invite your friends over, have a few beers, and enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"It´s entertainment; just that","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"54 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don´t understand all the commotion in the user opinion section. Is Van Diesel a decent actor or is he not.  Can somebody shoot a gun while flying through the air or not? Are the Beatles better than the Stones or is Wet Wet Wet a better band than the Backstreet Boys? It´s entertainment, nothing more. James Bond uses devices not yet invented and Frodo has hairy feet. If you want to comment on the contents and value of a movie I think you must take another movie like Schindler´s List (10+ !), not a movie that was produced purely for the fun. Sit back, enjoy the ride, don´t expect any deep going conversation and just have fun.  "},{"Title":"Diesel Is Decent As Latest Macho-Hero","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"48 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Vin Diesel is a pretty good guy to play these new action-heroes. Like The Rock, he's a big, muscular macho guy who men can look upon with some respect and the ladies can fall for. Unfortunately, a number of these testosterone-filled action films, including this one, are somewhat moronic in nature. However, they are undeniably entertaining.You can always depend on one thing in these type of movies, from the biker movies of the '50s to today's films the hero will always be a rebel against authority and any laws of the land. Also, an even more-recent theme is to have the government actually employ the rebel to get the job done because their men are unable to accomplish what this ultra-tattooed macho man can do! It's so much garbage, but it has its moments and Diesel still is a likable hero of sorts. Like Arnold Schwarzenegger before him, and Steven Seagal, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Chuck Norris and then The Rock, these kind of muscle-men have fairly clean mouths and at least some ideals. For pure action, the movie succeeds because, in the end, it does entertain which is the name of the game. "},{"Title":"Not exactly smart entertainment, but fun.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"45 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Look, I'm not going to pretend that this is some sort of masterpiece. Though it is basically another generic action flick, the twists that they add to it make it worth watching. The way they incorporate their recruitment program into the movie is fun and original, and though Vin Diesel doesn't really act in it, it's a lot of fun to watch. It has a few suspenseful plot elements, and the way they incorporate his status as an extreme sports star (not a spoiler, it's in the previews) into the way he conducts himself as a secret agent makes it more believable. Ever think about some of the stunts that go on in an action movie and wonder, Okay, exactly WHY would this particular person know how to do that?, because it seems completely unlikely that there would be some sort of training program for the stunt they just pulled off? This movie doesn't have that, because whether he's on a motorcycle, skis, or whatever, you can believe that an extreme sports star would be able to pull off what he's doing. Though the plot is as unrealistic as most movies of this genre, the stunts are a lot more believable than you'll find in most. "},{"Title":"Lousy and incredibly entertaining","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"53 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let there be no doubt The acting sucks. Even Samuel L. Jackson's performance is mediocre and definitely unexpectedly so. The plot is ludicrous, the characters unbelievable and the acting (oh, I mentioned this already) dilettante. Effects had gone overboard and factualities of science wildly disregarded. Yet! Yet, this movie was quite the entertaining one. Subtly (purposely?) funny at places completely overshadowing the dysfunctional slapstick that absolutely didn't cut it, and above everything else - it didn't hesitate. The action was brilliantly choreographed and impressively implemented.- Thomas Nielsenp.s. Samuel L. Jackson should really not have been here. He should've been sitting at a table in a bar talking to Quentin Tarantino over a cup of coffee about a prequel to Pulp Fiction or what not. He definitely should not have been here. Definitely not. "},{"Title":"XXX DELIVERS EXTREME FUN! PUT YOUR BRAIN ON HOLD AND ENJOY!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"31 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Have you seen the trailer for this film??? Then forget about reading my review or anybody else's for that matter!  It doesn't take 2 brain cells rubbing together to know what you are going to get here, and you get PLENTY of it!  This was not a typical movie choice for me (my guy's turn to choose), but I had some idea what to expect and I think you do too. Having said that, here is a BIG SURPRISE - this was one of the MOST FUN, simply enjoyable movies I have seen in months, maybe a couple of years!!!  This film is wonderfully unpretentious.  It doesn't take itself too seriously, and we shouldn't either.  Does XXX provide deep intellectual insights, an elegantly constructed production with soul-searching performances, an air-tight plot with masterful dialog, gritty realism, completely true-to-life action scenes, brilliant editing?  Although the answer is obvious (in case you haven't seen the trailer, the answer is NO), a much better question is, WHO CARES?!  This movie is all about fun!  Crazy, mind-blowing, awesome (and in some cases,of course, obviously impossible) extreme stunts!  Diesel is charismatic and charming, the girl is sexy and engaging and the bad guy is appropriately nuts.  The plot is good enough. The way they take out a communications tower doesn't make much sense, but otherwise we'd miss out on another amazing stunt scene so once again, who cares!  (Hey, check out 'Signs', a supposed new masterpiece by a supposed great director, if you want to see a film that really makes no sense!) There's some humor and a few decent one-liners, too.  One of the Bond spoofs is even smartly hilarious (a car stuffed Bond-style with gadgets that end up being virtually useless).  The way this film is NOT extreme is also refreshing.  There is just basic shoot-em-up and action stuff - no extreme violence/gore, no extreme profanity, no extreme sexual content, and no extremely 'important' artistic message.  In other words, nothing to detract from the great fun of a fast-paced, amazing stunt-fest that is light, refreshing, and visually awesome.  The perfect summer action flick!  "},{"Title":"2hrs of lets blow everything up","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is fun, with an easy plot to follow and a great soundtrack. the film is basically a 2hour long stunt. the one major criticism i have is that Asia Argento should stick to letting Daddy chop her up in his movies instead of trying to be a serious actress. The film is made all the better on a personal level in the fact that Rammstein make a live appearance at the beginning of the film. Vin Diesel has the charisma and potential to be the next big action movie star and has a really cool voice. Samuel Jackson gets to play his typical gruff shouting role that he has made his own and there are several stunts that are truly breathtaking, it is just sad that one of these led to the stuntman performing it's death. "},{"Title":"When this movie's good, it's fantastic...","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Then again, when it's bad, it's overlong, faintly chauvinistic, and most definitely thicker than two short planks.But don't get me wrong. xXx has a lot to recommend it. From an action point of view, this movie's about as much fun as you can have with your pants still on. Buildings explode, bullets fly by and Vin Diesel grins and goofs about like any self-respecting action star should. I mean okay, the movie doesn't give it's audience any credit for intelligence, utilising a paper-thin plot to lead us about like a blind man, and the entire female cast, even Asia Argento (who trust me is very good when she's GIVEN SOMETHING TO WORK WITH...), are really just left to sit around and look pretty while all the exploding goes on, but I can't hold that against it too much. It just must be explained first.Given the way of the Hollywood blockbuster, i.e. the hideously PC lacklustre uninvolving pap we're getting force-fed these days that you instantly forget when you leave the theatre, it's nice to see a film that doesn't care if you like it or not. xXx is this movie. It knows it's not big, clever or funny, but it doesn't care and it gets on with it's exploding wares with admirable effort. In fact xXx is much like it's star Vin Diesel. He, and the film, may not be the greatest in their field but damn it they're gonna try as hard as possible to keep your bum on the seat.They succeed. You won't be forgetting xXx in a hurry. You might not enjoy it as much as I did, but if none of this film leaves a gawping 'wow, they actually went and did that' expression on your face, you may well be dead. My only real criticism other than the movie's stereotypical nature (which is a given anyhow given it's director and publicity) is it's running time. I watched the extended special edition cut and it's about 2 hours 10 minutes. Either way you cut it that's a long time to sit through a movie that boils down to 'get girl, kill baddies'. Minor gripe though. Check it out, it's worth your time. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably stupid","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is as big as Pinocihos nose after he has read a statement written by Jeffrey Archer and as dumb as a person with no tongue. It is designed for the kind of people who think that Bond movies have too much of that talking stuff between explosions and use this strange music that doesn't seem to have distorted electric guitars or rapping on it. It is also a lot of fun.After losing another spy on the trail of ultra stupid terrorist anarchy 99, whose plan for world domination involves building a boat in a landlocked country, the NSA decide they need a new breed of agent. Therefore they kidnap extreme sports enthusiast and counter culture hero Xander Cage, aka xXx, aka Vin Diesel playing virtually the same character he did in Pitch Black and The Fast And The Furious. After watching him do Evil Kineval impersonations around a Colombian cocaine plantation whilst the army try to blow it off the face of the Earth they cut him a deal. Either save the world or go to jail. Unsurprisingly he chooses the former.For the first 20 minutes it looks encouragingly like the they have just allowed the stunt team to make the entire movie. However before long we have scenes developing the love interest set in swanky restaurants and a lush orchestral score creeping in. This wouldn't be a problem if the writer didn't think the phrase one liner referred to the amount of decent dialogue he had to include in the entire film. As it is your mind starts wandering as soon as things stop exploding.However xXx's action sequences are more than enough to compensate the viewer for their patience during the more laboured elements of the film. The stunts are by turns ambitious, outrageous and just plain improbable, however it seems unlikely that the film will be causing the James Bond producers too many sleepless nights. In fact before long they will be making films to appeal to people who think the xXx movies have too much dialogue and not enough nu-metal. They'll probably call them Jackass Bond. "},{"Title":"Bond Deconstruction","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"73 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This starts with a man wearing a tux getting killed by some Slavic gangsters at a Nu-Metal gig . It's never mentioned on screen but the implication is that the dead man is Bond, James Bond and throughout the movie where treated to an alternative universe where the world is no longer saved by sophisticated suave secret agents but saved by a loud crass extreme sports loving American Did I use the word  treated  in the above paragraph ? Maybe that's too much of a strong word because XXX isn't much of a treat . Okay I disagree with many of the people claiming this was the worst movie of 2002 but Rob Cohen is a very shallow director while Vin Diesel is a laughably bad actor who makes Sylvester Stallone look like Anthony Hopkins in comparison . What compounds this problem is the amount of homage the movie pays to the Bond series . Isn't this movie trying to do away with Bond ? So why does Xander Cage borrow lines like  The things I do for my country  which sounds a lot like  The things I do for England  from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE . all throughout the movie we're treated ( Again that's maybe not the right word ) to little nods and winks to Fleming's superhero which makes the movie end up being a 21st century homage to JB and I doubt if this was the original intension . The story structure mirrors that of the franchise of cramming in several different locations because it seemed like a good idea at the time , so much so you find yourself forgetting what the original plot was , there's a femme fatale and the bad guy wants to start effectively world war three . Seen it all before XXX is dumb , loud and spectacular when it needed some wit and a better leading man . If your only requirement in a movie is stunts and explosions you'll no doubt enjoy it but I do prefer substance in a movie "}{"Title":"Turn off your brain and enjoy the ride...","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I would not dare to insult anyone's intelligence. With that said let me add, this movie will not insult yours, if you see it with the right attitude. Adrenaline pump set for full tilt boogie. This is not an intellectual movie, it is not a love story, and it certainly is not Rambo. What it is, is a series of action shorts connected by a common thread that is very much in vogue. Good guys vs. bad guys/terrorists and in so doing, overcome insurmountable odds to, 1. Do the  right thing  2. Save the day, 3.Have a hell of a time doing it and 4. GET THE GIRL! If, you expect anymore than that, you will be disappointed. So, turn off you brain and enjoy the ride. If you enjoy extreme sports, action genre movies and bad guys with eastern european accents, sign up get ready to party. This is your movie! Oh, btw. Make sure you see this movie in a theatre that has GREAT sound. You will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Enjoyable Experience.","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" An extreme sports athlete, Xander Cage, is recruited by the government on a special mission.xXx is by no means a gem of a movie, but nevertheless, it is quite the entertaining experience. I wasn't really sure what to expect when I decided to watch this movie, but I must say, that I did enjoy it. xXx is a fun and exciting action film, which while not one of the greatest movies of all time, is still fun and enjoyable nevertheless. I had heard about the mixed reviews that this movie received upon its original release, and so therefore, I was kind of wondering how it would turn out when I watched it, but when I did watch it, I ended up liking the movie. This movie is a movie that certainly delivers what it promises, it promises us a lot of action and thrills, and boy, it certainly does deliver that. And hey, it's probably better than many of the action films that come out in this decade. Sure, this movie is merciless and mindless in its action, but there's still much to recommend and at least the acting is good, and Rob Cohen's directing is coherent. This movie was basically a hit or miss kind of thing, and it hit in the right places numerous times.Vin Diesel plays the hero of the movie Xander Cage, and like the movie did, Diesel surprised me here. He certainly knew how to bring out the action and the thrills, and the way he does it, you will definitely be rooting for him. Samuel L. Jackson gives in a good performance as Agent Augustus Eugene Gibbons, who acts as Cage's boss. And basically, everyone else seemed to do good in their roles as well. That was surprising as well, that the acting was quite good, because I was expecting it to be mindless or over the top, just like the action is, but no, it was actually good. The action is over the top, but it's entertaining all the same, scenarios in which the good guys take on the bad guys, and everything in between. And not to mention, there are numerous bits that will have you on the edge of your seats, filled with suspense.All in all, while this movie is definitely not a masterpiece of cinema, it is still a good movie on the whole level, and it's definitely an exciting one too. And I can say that it is at least better than the very, very, poor sequel, xXx State Of The Union. If you have about 2 hours to spare, and want something exciting, then perhaps you should give this movie a watching, as you will be entertained by it. Basically, if you want acting and thrills, then don't worry, as this movie will give you plenty of it, I repeat, plenty of it. So if you are looking for a work of art, then you probably should watch something else, but then again, who knows, you might enjoy this movie more than I did, and you might even say that it's one of your favorites.8/10 "},{"Title":"A challenge to Bond? Don't make me laugh","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx was an bad movie. It was marketed as the new Bond, having biggest action and hero people could relate to. After a sequel that dive-bombed at the box office and the Bond franchise better then ever the xXx movies are now dead in the water.The plot of the movie was weak, Xavder Cage (Vin Diesel), was an illegal extreme sports star ends up getting recruited into the NSA headed by Samuel L. Jackson. After a bit of training, including being sent to Colombia to avoid capture by Drug Barons. He is then sent to Prague to investigate Anarchy 99. Anarchy 99 aim is world domination and planned to use chemical weapons to destroy the world's major cities. The dialogue of the film was bad and there is no subtly. It is just a show of explosions and shooting battles where the bad guys can't seem to shot straight. It isn't even trying to be comedic which at least True Lies try to do (I'm not a fan of that film either). It seem to be an attack on Bond type films, but it didn't work. It was just aimed at 14-year-old boys and having extreme stunts and unrealistic events such as riding on a mission in the middle of the river Vltava. This sort of film would have had a short shelve life and will not last. It could not build a franchise and most people would outgrow this sort of movie.I remember when it was released that there was some talk that Vin Diesel was considered to be a potential Bond, and I was thinking what the hell are you one. Die Another Day tried to be more action based and be more unbelievable. The director of that film, Lee Tamahori, ended up directing the sequel. The real threat to Bond and forcing it to change was not this rubbish but the Bourne Trilogy.Its just not worth watching this film. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Xander zone","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember in high school a lot of students were talking about this movie xXx. Staring Vin Diesel, Samuel L Jackson, Asia Argento, among others.Just watching this film after so long of not seeing it made me think about how much my view point of it has change back then I enjoy it and I still do today but it's not a perfect film.Then again it wasn't set up to be that way but still don't think I'm bashing the film no sir no ma'am I'm not. I enjoy the film it just has been so long until a few months ago that I just watch it again to see how it holds up today.The story of the film features Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage an Adrenaline junkie who ends up getting the attention of Agent Augustus Gibbons of the NSA who recruits Cage for a job to become a spy for him.The Soundtrack of the film has a mix of metal and hip hop songs featuring Gavin Rossdale, Drowning Pool,Nelly, N.E.R.D., Queen of the Stone Age and much more. The theme of the film is Adrenaline by Gavin Rossdale which in it own right match the film and the character of Xander Cage so good job by the music department to pick this song as the film theme.What is the driving factor of the film is the action and stunts are pretty much out of this world. Some stunts almost think that was impossible for them to pull it off. But sure enough it was very well done which is enough to keep your interest. Some of the cast could have been do with out but Vin did well as the anti hero of the film since he wasn't intend to being in the mess in the first place but he was in it non the less.Some of the characters could have been better off not making it onto the film but what can you say about it but still I found the film to be enjoyable.With great stunts, tight soundtrack it's enough to enjoy the filmI give xXx an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dude, stop thinking Prague Police and start thinking Playstation. Blow sh*t up!","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Contrary to the typical connotations associated with these three letters, this is not a porn movie, nor is it any kind of high-strength beer. In 2002, it was a film that promised a new breed of action hero Xander Cage, the US answer to James Bond, in a film that takes a typical spy movie and shakes it up a little.The film plays into all the same conventions as a typical Bond movie, complete with gadgets, a car with weapons, and maniac villains in secret lairs with elaborate plots to release some kind of elaborate superweapon. Right from the start, xXx blatantly takes all these tropes and jazzes them up with a hard rock veneer (literally, the film kicks off with an actual Bond lookalike that gets whacked in the middle of a Rammstein concert). In Xander Cage's world, the stunts are more extreme and sporty, the parties are harder, the girls are sluttier, the locations are scuzzier, and there's absolutely no civility. Also in Cage's world, it's completely possible to make motorcycles jump in the air and flip around in impossible ways, you can start an avalanche with grenades and survive, and a GTO can be decked-out with every weapon imaginable. Despite all the dirt and toughness that goes into the character and his world, there's no masking the film's absurdities, with all its unbelievable stuntwork and silly turn of events. But, the film never makes a pretense to be anything but silly, juvenile fun. The film moves at a fast pace, has plenty of cool scenes, and it is every bit as fun of a movie as other guilty pleasure favorites in the genre (such as Charlie's Angels or Die Another Day).The plot is pretty tight and it feels complete, but it doesn't necessarily feel all that original, despite the unique premise of hiring a hardened criminal as a spy. The story has a lot of twists, which can strain believability even further, and become rather predictable. The characters are a fun bunch that are easy to watch and understand, but they are ultimately thin cardboard cutouts standing in for familiar archetypes. There is a hint of characterization around Xander, the man who starts off as a deviant and ends as a true good guy. Overall though, the film is safe, familiar, and outright derivative.The film has some really neat camera-work with a lot of good angles. Some scenes are pretty fast-cut and some are poorly shot, but by today's standards, it looks sharp and punchy. Acting is a bit over-the-top, but Vin Diesel is a lot of fun to watch as the main character, the villains are really good, the love interest isn't bad, and everybody else is okay. Writing is okay. This movie uses some really good-looking locales (mostly in Prague), as well as some okay-looking sets, props, and costumes. Special effects are pretty bad (especially the avalanche scene). The music score is decent; the film does tend to bust out with a lot of obnoxious rock and metal, but it fits.xXx is one silly action flick that can't really be taken too seriously, but as an absurd guilty pleasure, it is quite entertaining and fulfilling. There might even be some alternate universe where xXx is a halfway decent franchise; the roots for one are laid down pretty well in this film. Action movie fans should give this a rent at least once; you might think it's stupid, but you're bound to have plenty of fun with it.On home video, this movie is available with an unrated cut that inserts a few new scenes, which really aren't necessary at all. One scene is also altered to show more naked girls lying around, which is nice, but also unnecessary. I prefer the theatrical cut.3.5/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Average | Film Marginal) "},{"Title":"Spy/action film with a modern twist, but don't take it too serious!","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx is an entertaining spy/action film because it puts a nice twist to the genre by including an outcast as a main character & featuring some impressive stunts. It does rehash most of the old ideas known in the genre + the general promise is a bit silly, but it doesn't really distract from the overall enjoyment level.The cast is generally good, the highlight for me being Marton Csokas as Yorgi. He really puts on a good, psychotic villain performance. The rest of the film; editing, cinematography, (no shaky cam in the action scenes!)score, action/stunts,... were well put together.Good popcorn fun! "},{"Title":"Unstopped action-packed, violence and overwhelming scenarios","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This blockbuster concerns about Xander Cage, a macho-man with natural athletic abilities, he's an extreme-sports expert. When he is by force recruited by NSA agent Gibbons(Samuel L. Jackson) for dangerous mission and as avoid going to jail but he has some problems with the law . Xander can succeed where other US Government agents have failed. He must to go underground Praga and infiltrate as undercover agent into Russian ring called Anarchy 99, led by a ruthless mobster(Marton Csokas) who uses nuclear weapons. Xander Cage must combat a cruel enemy far beyond his possibilities, he's only helped by a gorgeous girl(Asia Argento). Furthermore, Xander is supplied with technological arms by an agent(Michael Roof), similar to Q-James Bond.The film contains high-energy action, noisy thrills, struggles, emotion and spectacular scenes. It's over-the-top action movie plenty of explosions, firepower, gun-play and breathtaking pursuits as when a motorcycle runs afoul with bounds and leaps. The picture is stirring and exciting, though also a routine actioner with no much sense. Tough Diesel as one army man is cool, he's co-executive producer. Lively musical score by Randy Edelman , adding hard rock, heavy metal and disco-music. The film is produced with high budget by Neal H. Moritz, an action movies producer and usual of Rob Cohen movies. Cohen is a nice director of hits, such as ¨Stealth, Fast and furious, Daylight, Skulls, Dragonheart¨ among others. It's followed by an inferior sequel starred by Ice Cube and again with Samuel L Jackson and directed by Lee Tamahori. "},{"Title":"The kind of hero we need on these days","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a movie where everything blows up. You can expect everything coming from Xander. He is a tough American guy raised on the streets, and he has the ability to carry Herculean-tasks where others fail.He can take an American Chevrolet Corvette, an awesome car, and blow it up in fifteen minutes! Or he can destroy anything alive while jumping ridding a motor-bike! That's the great thing about Hollywood movies, anything can happen and I love it- just like most of people do.The music is pretty cool, as usual in American productions and the action goes from the bottom to the top in a few seconds.Vin Diesel is probably one of the best American action-flick's actor, he rules in any movie where there're explosions. In addition, the dynamic script and great plot makes this one a movie that encourages you to see it again.This movie shows American heroism. "},{"Title":"seriously, what do you take us for?!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is possibly one of the worst films ever made. Rob Cohen should be ashamed of himself. The script, apart from having some of the worst dialogue ever put to paper, had more holes than a block of swiss cheese.Whoever thought that Vin Diesel could act should seriously have his head checked. Saving Private Ryan, I can accept that. The guy didnt have very much to do, and what he did do, he did competently. But to watch the guy deliver the lines in this film, and try to take himself seriously is nothing short of hilarious.And as for the end credits... they have to be seen to be believed. XXX2? For the love of god, please spare us. This film was bad enough. "},{"Title":"A COOL movie, not GREAT, just cool to watch","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Knowing that our government gives extreme convicts a chance to save our country makes me sleep like a baby every night... wait, no it doesn't. OK, the story, is incredibly unrealistic and not to mention some of the action sequences that go on. In general, I guess this is what you can classify a guy's flick. But I'm not sure why, I kinda enjoyed XXX because it was very cool just to watch.I think just to watch these kind of sports are very exciting, so you just get into the groove of the movie and except everything that is happening. If you're looking for a great movie, I wouldn't really recommend this type of flick, but if you are looking for sheer entertainment, I think you'll get that with XXX.6/10 "}{"Title":"Utter Rubbish","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As soon as I heard Yo Yo Dude, you just knew it was going to be bad.. over the top Yank crap, half of it was inaudible, the other half was some strange language we English just don't get!. Yo Yo Dude.. funny really!!Thank god for Prague, which was without doubt the highlight of the film. That was actually surprising, I mean for a film which got it all wrong, managed to get the location so right, shame it had some talent less Gung Ho American running around it.James bond you are not and unfortunately could never be.   Why Hollywood thought the world needed an American Special agent is beyond me. Somethings you just aint so good at.. Please no sequal! "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Any respect I had for Vin Diesel has been completely lost in this film. Xander Cage (Diesel) is an extreme sports star for some reason at the start steals a car and drives off a bridge with it. After being arrested he ends up in a top secret government facility under the control of Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) and is told that Xander, along with two other guys are competing to get a top secret job and have his criminal record cleared.After the stupidest fight scene of the modern day including Xavier jumping a bike thirty feet over a fence with no ramp leading up to it, and him avoiding hundreds of soldiers and a military helicopter, he gets the job. Xander is to spy on and collect information on a diabolical mad man named Yorgi (Marton Csokas). For no reason, Xander goes out to complete the mission. Wow letting a criminal into a foreign country and not watching him. Of course he won't run, and he doesn't.Instead after infiltrating the place he manages to do things James Bond couldn't do let alone any human being. The acting is terrible, the plot, slim, and the action, mildly amusing. Their is no character development or interaction. If this is how desperate the government is for spies in the film, then just come out and say it.xXx. Starring Vin Diesel, Samuel L. Jackson, Marlon Csokas, and Asia Argento.1 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Great Action Movie/Comedy","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story to this movie was very different and creative. Even though people say it is a James Bond rip off, it is some way very different. The action scenes in this movie was great. Well done. A great cast for this movie. Vin Diesel was great for this part. I can't wait for the sequel to this movie. I am defiantly going to see it. It will probably be another great experience!! "},{"Title":"This is an ad for Red Bull, isn't it?","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This isn't really a film, rather a bunch of Xtreme sports stunts strung together under the pretense of a modern souped-up James Bond- style storyline. It's basically really, really dumb with plot holes so large that they might as well have driven the stunt cars through them, but then, that's par for the course with this kind of movie. It's chock full of all kinds of gear, weapons, vehicles and improbable physical feats. I have no idea of how many blanks were fired filming this for my entertainment, but I really wouldn't be surprised if it were upwards of a quarter million, given the two hour runtime and the prolific use of automatic weapons. Still, as long as you accept it for what it is, it keeps moving and holds together pretty well, although the particular examples of Xtreme action showcased in this film (and I use that term loosely) date this production pretty obviously to the early naughts. "},{"Title":"Hilariously stupid and brilliantly entertaining","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First, get the story out of the way Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage, an extreme sports athlete, whose stunts more than occasionally land him on the wrong side of the law. But up steps Samuel L. Jackson, a secret agent, who after sending Xander on training missions, offers him a deal. Cage has to infiltrate an East European ring of terrorists in exchange for the dropping of all charges. Naturally, Cage agrees - and away we go.To be fair, I did not have high expectations of the film, and it definitely lived up to those. The action sequences are extremely unrealistic (but great!), the whole premise of the story is fairly ludicrous and I think it highly doubtful that Vin Diesel will ever be asked to play the lead character in a Shakespeare play. Nevertheless, it is flashy, fast and furious - and therefore highly enjoyable. James Bond it certainly ain't, but Vin Diesel's brawn instead of the English spy's brain still makes for great entertainment. So go and see it, but it helps if you switch your brain off first... "},{"Title":"Just another biproduct of a pathetic plastic culture.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Im glad this movie didnt take itself seriously, thats the only part I liked about this movie.If you are a 13 year old boy, you might like this movie, and thats cool. But If you are older and are getting just a little tired of all the crap, the media, (and the world around us) has the guts to throw at us, then you shouldnt watch this movie.Its bad, its real bad. But not that bad if you just turned on the TV on a sunday afternoon and have nothing else to do.In the end, this is what there is most of in our world today. The consumers decides what the media throws at us, and when the majority of the consumers are in fact, young or shallowminded youngsters, this is what we get.People this is just another biproduct of a pathetic plastic culture.Ignorance is bliss... "},{"Title":"Poor XXX","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" In the opening sequence, a spy dressed in 007-outfit, is shot during a Rammstein gig in a cave-like setting. What could have been a nice reference to this James Bond, make way for something new idea is completely spoiled when the movie imitates every possible James Bond item including a Q-character presenting a car with special gadgets. Much of the stuntwork is spoiled by extensive repetitive slow-motion, hysterical cutting and surprisingly poor special effects (i.e. the avalanche). The good guy on the run on a motorcycle, chased by the bad guys and the bullets hit the ground in two lines to the left and right for half a minute. Boring. About the plot - okay, that's not fair. And now the man XXX has big muscles, big tattoos, some fashionable rock star equipment and is fashionably bold. He kicks on adrenaline and himself, he hardly speaks more than one sentence and has a range of one and a half different emotional expressions. He is a pain in the ass for everybody and very quick in breaking secret service clerks' noses, but he is politically supercorrect, fights the evil because he does not find it nice if many innocent people get killed and smoking is dangerous, of course. The only thing missing is an MTV-tattoo on his chest. Anyway, probably one of the contributors to the message board is right by saying This is America. XXX II or XXXX or whatever the sequel may be titled has probably supporting roles for Britney Spears and Fred Durst and a plot around a dangerous new drug from terrorists on Jihad. My suggestion for Vin Diesel take some acting lessons, get some hair - and please, change the coat. "},{"Title":"Awful american movie!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is disappointing, extremely american, extremely unrealistic! The action scenes are the worst seen ever! I mean, god d*mn, there's no realism at all! I can say that after the disappointing cinema-visit, me and my mates took a 20 minutes chat about all the unrealistic, awful scenes and bugs in this movie... There were a lot of them! For example when the hero is about to shoot the bad guy, a huge door is heading for him, and with just about 20 cm left (between the door and the hero, he is about to get crushed!), he starts shooting, and when finished, the door is 30 cm (!) above him... still closing in... hm, I mean, come on! This movie actually SUCK, I'm sorry about my choice of words, but hey, it really does!I can say that this movie is entertaining from time to time, and maybe it's worth renting in a couple of years, if you like american unrealistic dream-action movies! But don't pay the cinema a visit for this crap. If you are 10 years old, maybe you could like this, but hey - just a tip - don't consider him as a person for someone to model yourselves on! ;)3/10, awful, extremely american and totally unrealistic! NOT recommended. "},{"Title":"james bond?  dont make me laugh","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This could have been a good film. But was just a film made for extreme sport enthusiasts.  The acting was amongst the worst I have ever seen with european accents rivalled only by Dick Van Dyke in Mary Poppins.  We can only hope the sequel invests in a decent script as well as some impressive stunts.  Why would the baddie in the film build a submarine in a country no where near an ocean.  Give me a break!!! "},{"Title":"007 shouldn't be afraid","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX suffers from the worst fate any movie can have. Mediocrity. I wish I could say it's just a big, dumb, bad action movie. But that would be unfair, cos for most of the time I was really entertained.  There were some very thrilling action scenes (the avalanche was well done, just like the bridge stunt) and the plot was a 'best of' every Bond movie you've ever seen.  Now it would also be unfair to call it a good movie. The acting, on all parts, is far below average. Vin Diesel doesn't seem to be able to speak one convincing line in the whole movie. Asia Argento should stick to the movies of her daddy, and the villain was a carbon copy of (again) every Bond villain you've ever seen.I'm not sure if I like the idea of Diesel becoming the new action hero. He has some screen presence allright, but he doesn't have the 'je ne sais quoi' of Ah-nuld. Ah-nuld rules by the way (before XXX began I saw a teaser for T3, so I'm in an Ah-nuld mood, sorry bout that). Anyway, Diesel was good in Fast and Furious (a movie way better than this one)but I really don't think he's leading man material.If you want to go to XXX, you'll probably have a fun time, but chances are you'll start to forget the movie before the end credits role. Next, please! "}{"Title":"PEOPLE! PEOPLE! YOU ARE ALL BEING BRAINWASHED!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's funny how you can all buy into a cheesy story, cheesy acting and cheesy action scenes and watch a bald headed riding on a tray. Yeah. OK. I'm sure a tall tanned dude is going to replace Bond. Wake up and smell the horrible everything of this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Made for the 11-14 year old boy (some, at that)","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  My neighbor's son, aged 13, said I should see XXX because it was awesome, with lots of cool parts.  That should have been my warning.  I went to see it, and while it wasn't the worst film I ever saw, I spent more time analyzing how perfectly it was designed for the 11-14 year old male movie-goer, especially boys fascinated with violence, explosions, weaponry, sadism, brutality, jingoism, ethnocentrism, etc.  It had no complexity, requiring no thought at all.  Few spoken sentences contained a multisyllabic word; few sentences were longer than four words.  Most were grunted swears or flip come-backs.  There were no complexities like emotions, except for simulated anger. Not my taste at all.  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have EVER seen. The dialogue was AWFUL, the script was DIABOLICAL and the characters were LAUGHABLE.Unless you're a 13 year old boy with spots and a penchant for stunts - stay at home. "},{"Title":"Shocking!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not a Vin Diesel fan, so wasn't excepting much.  But I was so shocked, I had to go outside for a fag break two thirds of the way through.  Not shocked by the excellent action scenes, but by the complete and utter lack of respect that Rich Wilkes and Rob Cohen have for their audience.  The story was poor, the dialogue was flat and the one liners were simply pathetic.  If only cinemas had a money back policy... "},{"Title":"Very bad Conair/James Bond Mix","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a stupid movie! I can't believe they're actually filming part 2! This film is a mix of Con Air gasoline explosions (lots of them) and James Bond stunts. It's so full of (bad/fake) stunts that i got bored within half an hour. The end of the movie is exactly the same as it was in James Bond!! I couldn't believe my eyes! Part 2? No thanx. I gave it 3.0/10, but it should be 1.5/10 ) "},{"Title":"This movie is a joke!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What's wrong with the film industry? This movie is one big joke. Only the carjacking part at the beginning of the movie is fun to watch. It takes real actors to make a great movie. I have only one request for the movie producers Please, don't even think about making XXX part II. "},{"Title":"'xxx'? probably means nobody should be allowed to see it.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  what an interminable bore this is. a mind numbingly terrible piece of hollywood computer programmed garbage which is squarely aimed at play station gurus who enjoy watching overlong cinematic videogames without a semblance of wit, humour or emotion.  "},{"Title":"I was bored!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was roped in to watching this as all the other movies had started and boy was i bored.This cheesey dialogued below average action movie was a 007 wannabe! Vin diesel's only decent film has been Pitch black! Keep away from this xxx movie and watch another one,where there's gauranteed to be more enjoyment! "},{"Title":"Talk about Trash","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now lets think.  If you throw everything that's considered cool in today's youth, add bad dialogue, and a sh** plot, then you have XXX.  The writers probably sat around thinking of things that are cool today, and threw in cars, women, and vin diseal.   "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think this was perhaps one of the worst films I have ever seen in my entire movie watching experience.The screenplay was shocking, the acting was shocking and the stunts were badly filmed.When XXX was snowboarding down the mountain after setting off the avalanche, the snow seemed to catch up with him every shot, but in the next shot it was miraculously 20 feet behind him.Every plot twist was signposted and I struggled to make it right through this film.I strongly advise anyone who has more than a passing interest in films to stay miles and miles away from this rubbish. "}{"Title":"Over 15's need not apply...","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is technically cack.Sorry if you haven't seen it, but it really is dire. I love big budget action movies as much as the next person, but this is so shallow and poor, its not possible.I almost wish I could turn back the time ten years, cos then this film would be the best I've ever seen.Asia Argento, and the villian are hardly villianous. Vin Diesel needs something much better than this to start a career and Samuel L Jackson is wasted.The only good bit was the snowboarding bit, but it was too little too late.The submarine looked like a childs toy...and I could go on and on about how dire this film is, but I won't.If you're over the age of 15 and really have to see it, then wait till rental...otherwise go and rent Con Air or Face/Off and see how action movies should be done. "},{"Title":"That's not a movie it's a playstation game","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The stunts are spectacular but so unbelievable as to be boring after a very short time. There ARE laws of physics! The acting ... what acting? ... On the whole a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Excellent stunts, shame about the movie...","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is below par. Quite good action sequences, but a lack of direction, meaning or purpose on the big screen. It felt like a B-movie the whole way through. Both the acting and script were poor.The worst part of the film had to be the America saves the day attitude... When are directors going to learn that this is such an over used cliche and try something different (Russia saves the day maybe).The plot A Russian army breakaway group called Anarchy-99 are planning to destroy 10 major cities and hope that all the countries of the world start blaming each other. The leader of the group wishes for the world to implode on itself, leaving a totally free world.If you enjoy stunts then watch the movie... otherwise I think you should pass on this one... "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  i waste of 2 hours of my life, words cannot express how bad this film is, and some of the special effects arent very good. like the ones where he is snowboarding down the mountain. If you value how much time you have left in your life, see something else, or stay at home by yourself, it would be more fun. "},{"Title":"A bit rubbish really","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If anyone thinks this movie represents a good action flick, then may I assume that they haven't been alive for very long and so haven't seen the real thing.Cheap and obvious effects, one-dimensional acting and a ridiculous plot serve to make even the tired clichés of the Bond films seem like art by comparison. "},{"Title":"Dreadful, wooden, hammy.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a fan of Vin Diesel, I was thoroughly looking forward to XXX. In Pitch Black he had a powerful screen presence, and utterly outshone Paul Walker in that mediocre movie Fast and the Furious. As Xander Cage, however, his laughable facial expressions and mumbled, emotionally bereft speech was simply irritating. The on screen relationship between Asia Argento and himself was nonexistent, and that awful scar on the side of Samuel L. Jackson (which I'm sure moved during the film) was pathetic. I was so disappointed, I nearly walked out, which I NEVER do in movies. Simply put, I was gutted! "},{"Title":"Implausible...It SuxXx!Beware, contains spoilers","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  In the tradition of such classics as Van Damme's movie career and Schwarzenegger's own Commando, comes the moronic Triple X. A movie whose only mission was cashing in on Vin Diesel's rising star, xXx is one of the worst action movies I have ever seen in my life.Now I knew what I was paying for - James Bond meets an X-Games athlete. Sounds like nothing more than a harmless Saturday nite at the movies, right? As Schwarzenegger would say WRONG! Hey, I wasn't expecting this movie to break new ground in the action genre. Heck, director Rob Cohen makes genre movies (and there's nothing wrong with that, but..) I would have rather spent my evening pondering how the Signs alien could travel light years but couldn't get thru a pantry door instead of sitting through this garbage. I like Vin Diesel. I really do. He's a one of a kind actor. Sam Jackson's the self-proclaimed King of Cool. They're two reasons I plunked down 9 bucks for this. The third reason? I wanted two hours of escapism.Director Rob Cohen had over 30 years of Bond material to make sure he didn't screw this up but unfortunately he screwed both the movie and the moviegoer. This movie isn't even close to a Bond movie. It's below it. It insults the audience's intelligence with predictable twists that we've seen in any Bond movie. No, this movie is along the lines of Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot!!!First off, Vin Diesel's 6-foot-2, mostly taller than anyone in the movie which not only makes it implausible, but laughable when he sneaks around the villain's fortress. How could nobody see him? Implausiblity is the theme in this movie. I know, it's supposed to be nothing more than a fun time at the theater, but I found myself in stitches over many scenes including* See Vin point out all the contrivances in the faux diner to make him seem street smart as if we didn't know the whole thing was set up* Sadfully, see the great Sam Jackson NOT ACT.* See an M-like gadgets whiz/circus monkey spew out corny punchlines.* See Vin ride a motorcycle off a ramp, do a Superman grab on the back of his motorcycle, have time to take out his gun and perfectly shoot a bad guy in midair. He's got aim! But since when does an xtreme athlete have perfect marksmenship?*See Vin regurgitate Commando-style one-liners I told you that cigarette would kill you! that would be funny if he had comic timing and delivery.*See Vin escape a massive computer generated avalanche, get buried in the aftermath, and still come out alive. I'm sorry, but no xtreme athlete I've seen would successfully survived a K2ish avalanche.*See Vin's eyes bulge like a cartoons' when he tries to disarm the bomb in the 3rd act of the movie.*See Asia Argento go from prissy girlfriend to secret agent with one sentence I was a spy--I just didn't have time to tell you!!!And you're in big trouble when your villain's name is 'Yorgi', because I just couldn't wait for someone to say 'Yorgi Bear'. The villain seemed more like a Euro-trash porn director than an anarchist.What befuddles me the most is how my better half, Roger Ebert gave this movie *** 1/2 stars. He knows what's wrong with this movie more than I do. He's sat through countless action pictures and pretty much sums this one up as a good James Bond movie. Yeah, right. Vin, go back to your indie movies. You weren't an action star. You stretched your acting muscles. Here, you took the paycheck and breezed thru the role. How one can sit through two hours of this and not even laugh at the ridiculous inanity is a mystery. I couldn't even let myself go and be entertained. The worst set piece must have been the prolonged Colombian drug cartel that was neither breathtaking or interesting to look at.The only good thing this movie's got going for it are the beautiful women to look at, the poster, and the rockin' soundtrack. What's Vin's character arc in the movie? Well, he's an anti-social who ends up caring for the world. Like we weren't gonna see that one coming. No one would root for an anti-social. Especially in times like these. Bond, don't quit your day job just yet.Fun footnote You know your movie sucks when you have to end it with a computer generated tunnel of colorful fire climaxing to the xXx sign with two pistols each side of it!- Rogerebertsclone, out... "},{"Title":"Not bad. Bring some popcorn.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, before anyone starts nagging, no, this is not a serious or pretentious film. This is *not* supposed to make too much sense. Yes, it has lots of plotholes. Yes, it's not the best action film of the year.Who cares?Really, who cares?The stunts are worth the price of admission. Vin Diesel is a good enough actor to have a leading role. Asia Argento is gorgeous. The car chases, the bike chases, the stunts, everything is made for one purpose only to suspend disbelief and have some fun. I did, and I'm glad for it.There is another point to be made - nobody seems to have noticed that the main character never smokes, drinks or uses drugs, even telling one of the bad guys cigarrettes will kill you. Now, *that* was a refreshing twist.Really, it's not a bad movie. Sony must be proud. They are the studio to beat this year. "},{"Title":"The light bulb's getting dim","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've earned a reputation of a man, who doesn't listen to what others say about a certain movie or music album, whatever. Too bad  /No, it's not that I regret watching this one. 4 me it lasted 30 minutes anyway.. By that moment I suddenly started feeling like I had enough. Hey, did anyone mention James Bond? What I actually liked about Vin Diesel (don't get me wrong, please) was his neck. It (his neck) had style. The rest.. is up to you.The stunt with the Chevy was disappointing. What p****d me off most, was that they've been showing it 4 so long, as if it was a masterpiece of action, like ANY of James Bond intros. But please..I do, however, have respect 4 those fellas, who did the motorcycle stuff (it wasn't Vin Diesel himself, I presume). The pieces were great, but the stunts never make a movie - rather it's a good movie, that shines even brighter with some STUNning gems in it. And this one is dim (I maybe would have said more, but I didn't watch the rest and went to see 'Minority Report' instead. A decision I did not regret ;)PS 1 I'm only sorry 4 Samuel L. Jackson. He's a great actor, no doubt. But sometimes everyone has to sacrifice something. I only hope they payed him well 4 this.PS 2 Pierce Brosnan will maybe make one more, but than he retires.. Maybe, Vin Diesel could.. eh..? "},{"Title":"Please get a scriptwriter","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I laughed harder at this movie than at anything else so far this year; I would only like to know how much of it was INTENDED to be funny.  Vin Diesel is, as always, charismatic and adorable, growly voice and puppydog faces all.  The action scenes were splendid, except insofar as they pushed the boundary of what would have been believable in a Warner Brothers cartoon--I found myself chortling uncontrollably, at moments which by rights ought to have been heart-stoppingly tense, my disbelief utterly un-suspended.  But GET A WRITER!  Any sophomore English major could have done better than this schlock.  The banalities that came out of the villain's mouth (I've mercifully forgotten his name) defied the inventive powers of Sidney Sheldon or Danielle Steele.  In fact, I would bet the entire contents of my piggybank that any random wino on Hollywood Boulevard after 11 P.M. could come up with deeper, funnier, more creative dialogue than what we heard onscreen.  There are brilliant writers out the wazoo in this country, working for FREE, pawning furniture to pay the rent!  Are idiot producers with billion-dollar budgets afraid they'll take over the world if they're given paid work, or what?  Hell, I hear that Vin Diesel himself used to be an English major--maybe you could hire HIM to write the scripts.  I'm sure he'd do a better job than whoever wrote this one.      "}{"Title":"This is the worst movie I've ever seen!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How did this movie ever reach the cinemas?? It is so tragically bad, that it is not even funny. Everything about this movie sucks. Bad acting, bad plot, lousy manuscript. The only slightly positive thing about this movie is the special effects, which are nice made eventhough almost every stunt is completely unrealistic. "},{"Title":"A real blockbuster! But the plot lets it down.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  An action flick/spy pic for the new Millennium - James Bond meets Mission Impossible with a little of Seth from those Crusty Motorcycle videos. If you forget about the plot and the depth of characters, and you just want to sit back and let the action thrill you, you will be impressed. This is a real blockbuster! Samuel L Jackson gives some credibility to the ensemble, but he must have owed someone a favor, as he doesn't really develop his character....I would have liked him to be more like Shaft or the Jules character from Pulp Fiction here...but this was not to be. Vin Diesel is believable as the adrenalin junky he jumps, kicks, dives, sleds and shoots his way out of situations with more confidence and style that Rambo. Worth a look on the big screen, but don't buy on DVD. "},{"Title":"xxx what can you say? better than fast and furious, not by much","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  weak,unrealisic plot, descent acting by some, poor by others, corny diologe, good action sequences,. overall unrealistic...... many part of the movie dont make much sence, editing and writing were poor,overall some parts were pretty boring..........4/10 "},{"Title":"Hollywood Propaganda","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hollywood has not produced such blatant and undeniable propaganda since World War II.  The premise of a character with which the youth of today can relate going to a foreign country to fight terrorism may appeal to some, but in my opinion it is an attempt to indoctrinate the public with the idea that they too can become glamorous super-heroes by walking down to their local army recruitment center.  The movie itself is nothing but mindless gratuitous action, which may seem harmless enough, but its horrible acting, poorly written script, lack of any coherent plot, and its misogynistic treatment of women make it indigestible filth. Claims that XXX is the American answer to James Bond make me wonder if Hollywood is even trying to make a good film anymore. They must think that the United States is filled with idiots if the American answer to a charismatic and suave secret agent is an ill-trained, vandalistic, uneducated felon. "},{"Title":"full of cliche's....seen it all before action thriller....","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  had a glimpse of this well anticipated movie..& lets say....it disappointed me & many of my fellow moviegoers. full of cheesy lines...the only thing holding this up is the action sequences.......... "},{"Title":"Disapointing","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"    There is a lot of dumb little things about XXX.  These would include its title character's ability to fly through the air with his dirt bike without hitting any ramps in once scene. It would also include a really dumb opening where secret agents are unsuccessful at infiltrating a terrorists party to obtain a computer chip (why not have many agents raid it instead of having to recruit dirt bags to get the job done, which is XXX's main story).  It has laughably unbelievable action sequences, no matter how experienced XXX (Vin Diesel's title charater) is at extreme sports.  This flick owes a lot to James Bond (its cars, weapons, women) and MI-2 (its style, villain and sets), but doesn't even bare to be compared to them.    "},{"Title":"James Bond of the XXI°century","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  James Bond is a gentlemen, he wears smoking suits, has a taste for martini vodka and beautiful girls... He is from the upper class, old-style educated and says sorry to his enemies after he shoots them.All this is fine - says the 2002 Hollywood producer - but isn't it a bit passé ???And there comes XXX  XXX is none of what James stands for... He is soooooooo XXI° century. Tatooed, terrible fur coats, does not drink, hate the smoke, come out from jail, become friend with his enemies, shoots at the police officer to convince the bad that he is with them, has no respect for anyone...It is a sign of the times, today's heroes are ambiguous scrap, borderline and psychotic, with very few notions on how to distinct good from bad - apart his own - preferably built in some strange place, with a doubtful past.Gosh if I was 16, I know how I would like this movie for the action and the ass-kicking phases... But today, I just wonder if the stirred but not shaken old model of save-the-world-hero wasn't just better than the moraleless, cynical and despaired XXX ? Or is he just too U.S. vs. his Brit counterpart ?***SPOILER*** By the way, if you like James Bond for the scenarios and the plot, XXX is a typical Bond plot  a crazy russian and his anarchist fellow friends wants to destroy with biological weapons all the major cities of the world for some obscure political reason. They were already infiltrated by the Russian secret services, but they lack so much of initiative and funds that the American agent has to come and save the poor Czech people who don't even know they are being threatened... Wasn't this treated in The spy who loved me, Moonraker, Diamonds are Forever, You only live twice, ... ? ***END OF SPOILER*** "},{"Title":"disappointing...","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  all i can say is that if vin diesel wants to be the next arnold then he has to find himself another director to work with cos rob cohen isn't the director who will take him to the superstar level.  this movie was just your standard average movie and nothing really made it stand out from other action movies.  lots of action scenes and explosions yet it doesn't make you jump out of your seat in amazement, you've seen it all before.  this movie even makes fun of james bond in the beginning but that's just because its jealous that the 007 movies are a lot better in several departments such as the acting, plot and action scenes.   "},{"Title":"Wasn't as good as I thought it would be","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  To tell you the truth, I didn't think Triple X was that good. It had some good action scenes but thats about it. Everyone is saying that Triple X is what Bond needs, I don't think so because the Bond movies always has an instreasting plot to it, Triple X dosn't. I mean I don't know what the big deal is, Vin Diesal wasn't that great in it, aand the story was crap. The only good thing about this film is the special effects. I give this movie a C "},{"Title":"please, don't waste your time or money","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If anyone braved the straight to video flop Omega Code starring Casper Van Diem, just picture it with a steroid enhanced budget, cast, and propensity for cheese, and you've got XXX.The acting was poor, the story was filled with more Velveeta than a box of Kraft Macaroni, and even the action was bad. Can you imagine sitting through an action movie and thinking to yourself, Man! When is this action sequence going to end?!? Well, unfortunately, there's a first time for everything. XXX is a movie where you stare at the scenes that are supposed to be funny and laugh at the scenes that are supposed to be serious. The only things that might have been slightly redeeming were the scenery and the individual stunts. But both qualities were ruined by every other aspect of the movie.How can you enjoy the beauty of Prague and the Czech countryside when there's crap being strewn through the streets and down the mountainsides? And how can you enjoy the effort of the stuntmen when the stunt is digitally enhanced to be obscenely unbelievable? The answer is that you can't. Just don't waste your time or your money. Learn from my mistake and go see something that you might actually enjoy. "}{"Title":"The big brother is here!!!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Prague is a bad place....Eastern Europe is a mess...They need a saviour...if he comes in the form of an American bad boy, they will take it...After spending a couple of hours watching bam bams you come out brainwashed----moral of the story America is the saviour of the world...even its criminals are more ethical than anywhere around the world!!!Coming to the film itself..the narrative is slow-paced...the back-ground score tries to make it look fast-paced...but trust me...it is anything but. As Xander Cage, Vin Diesel is tolerable...can't say if Samuel Jackson is running out of work, though...for most of the movie he just walks around clapping his hands and .... well..that's about it...Do not expect James Bondish humour from Diesel...in fact the laughs are few and hard to come by....the stunt scenes are probably the saviour....Asia Argento has a tired look and the others just pass by...On the whole, the film is not intended for serious viewing...if you are bored to death, go ahead and shut your senses and watch this movie...But my advice is stay away from it...it is not as good as the trailers suggest it is... "},{"Title":"wild to mild","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoy over the top action as much as the next movie go-er.  But it all has to come together for me.  This fell flat.  I loved Pitch Black, but XXX did not seem to work for Vin.  Maybe there were just too many little things that threw you out of the moment, from poorly faked belly tat's to a snow boarder out running a motorized vehicle to a Doomsday device that has to be right on top of it's target before it can fire a missile.  And the motorcycle and the helicopters scene &#133; I haven't seen anything that sad since Keanu Reeves tried to ride a bike in traffic in San Francisco, talk on a cell phone and shoot a gun all @ the same time.  It is not just one person or one thing that makes this a bad effort, because there are several good elements, but there is so much potential, that the final product really brings you down. "},{"Title":"Largely Unimpressive","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I held off on seeing The Fast and The Furious until it appeared on Starz and i wish I had on this also. Unfortunately Vin Deisel reminds me of a hipper Steven Seagal. He is a better actor by far but, this movie has only one saving grace and that is Samuel Jackson. The special effects are just way over-blown. I don't even put this spy movie on a level playing field with 007. It doesn't have the goods. Thankfully I saw it for free.  "},{"Title":"Dumb but fun","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Suspension of belief is required, as most of the movie is absurd in its very concept, but the special effects and action sequences are amazing.  For the ladies, Vin Diesel takes his shirt off a lot and shows off the voice that has been his trademark.  Extreme sports has met James Bond, lots of fun for everyone. "},{"Title":"Save Your Money","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  By nature action flicks are not supposed to be cerebral think pieces aimed at making us take a contemplative look at ourselves and the world, nor are they supposed to be devoid of character, class, and most importantly...fun. This is the quandry that XXX lies in.  This movie had all the promise of something decent, but falls brilliantly flat.  The focus is less on plot, or developing the character of Extreme sports junkie Xander Cage (Vin Diesel), and more on figuring how to get from one senseless action sequence to another.  The Die Hard and Rambo movies each had character that we like, and dare I say it cared about, but here the main character remains largely unsympathetic, and wholly unlikeable.  I sat there for those 124 minutes waiting for the movie to do something besides basically test the blaring sound system of the theatre.  The only bright spot (if there can be one) was Asia Argento as Yelena the requistite love interest of the movie. Xander Cage is a cult hero in the minds of Xtreme Sports fanatics, and just the man our government needs to help stop a group of Russian anarchists (who have dubbed themselves, unoriginally enough Anarchy 99),from annihilating the world.  Since there are rumored sequels planned, it becomes obvious that the ending has to come out a certain way.  Vin Diesel comes across flat, and if it weren't for his nicely chiseled body I might've walked out of the movie.  Not to go off on some kind of rant, but I know Diesel is better than this pointless drab.  I was intrigued by his short film Multi Facial, applauded his flawed hero in Pitch Black, and loved his strength and emotion in The Fast and the Furious, so to say i was let down by XXX would be a gross understatement.  I can only imagine that at some point Mr. Diesel has made a pact with Satan, and that this is his comeuppence.  So now he is deemd the next Stallone or Schwarzenegger, instead of the serious actor that I know he could be, that he claims he wants to be.  Once you are fitted with the action stamp, the chances of people seeing you as otherwise start to fade.  Vin should've focused more on his craft, and less on his $10 million paycheck.  All of the explosions and the avalanches have caused him to lose sight of his actual talent. I could encourage you to purchase this when it comes out on DVD, but that may even be a stretch, so I say rent it before you do anything hasty like filling the pockets of people who really haven't done anything to earn these ridiculous amounts of money.   "},{"Title":"Powerful visuals, disappointing results","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I walked into the theater with high hopes and walked out with an expression on my face like a cracked-brained calf. Essentially, the film was a series of 3 minute videos bound together with a thin rope of plot, and even thinner underlying premise. Vin Diesel may well be the next big thing in leading men of action, but this sure wasn't the vehicle. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the critics.  'xXx' does it better than Bond.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is dumb and unbelievable.  So what! This is a ACTION SPY MOVIE, based on the time-tested and time-worn 007 template, with a few upgrades for the new millenium.  If you're expecting realism, that's your problem.  I've been a fan of the Bond movie franchise but it's been dated and stale since the seventies. (Although Timothy Dalton was quite a good actor, overqualified for Bond films, actually.)  xXx is a guilty pleasure that is as much of this millenium as Bond was to the sixties. It is also a paradox, the slavish copy that is sharper and fresher than the original.The acting by the Diesel, Asia Argento, Marton Csokas and Samuel L. is surprisingly good, much better than you'd expect from any action flick. Diesel plays Xander Cage seriously but with healthy doses of humour.  His character does daring and courageous feats, but is also capable of feeling fear and vulnerability.  Diesel's innate intelligence is clearly apparent, showing once and for all, that he's much more than a lumbering musclehead. You'd be hard-pressed to find performances this good in any Bond movie.The plot of the movie really is dumb and unbelievable, but with a few twists that actually work.  The characters are written as smartly as possible under the circumstances.  They are given motivations that are at least halfway believable.  All through the movie, Xander Cage is a fun fantasy figure who also manages to be more identifiable and likeable than the snooty upper-class 007 ever was. Bond is cruel but gets the job done.  Cage is a more complex character who starts out as an anti-authoritarian rogue but develops ideals and feelings for those around him and also gets the job done.Another upgrade over Bond is the stuntwork.  With only one or two exceptions, the stunt-doubling is near flawless.  Most of the time, it's easy to imagine that Vin Diesel is doing the extreme stuntwork.Add it all up and the proof is there, xXx  007.  Not only is xXx not as bad as most critics would have you believe, but if you suspend your disbelief and keep your expectations in check, you can almost imagine that it's one of the best movies of 2002. "},{"Title":"keeps it comin!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a real action movie. from the real james bond type agent gettin waxed early to the final sam jackson line - this movie does NOT let up. its constant action the whole way through.  As for the acting, expect some trite dialogue and one liners, but hey - you didnt go to see an oscar winning screenplay did you? this movie kept me enthralled the whole time. even the males in the audience seemed to oooh and ahh when vin diesel removed his shirt etc. this one will put you in a TRIPLE X TRANCE! Enter the Xander Zone. -nrs "},{"Title":"wholesome entertainment for the whole family! + explosions","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  all in all, I was pretty pleased with this movie.  I had been dying to see it because - 2 words - Vin Diesel!  It was a pleasing mix of explosions, some sexy poses and attitude and more explosions mixed loads of action. Do we have another action series on our hands?  I can only hope so! "},{"Title":"A good diversion to get your heart racing","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  You probably won't leave 'XXX' thinking of future Oscar nominations, but you will leave feeling alive and wanting to go out to do something exciting.In his role as Xander, Vin Diesel comes across as a honest individual with an edge, but it's comforting to see he isn't uber-flashy or trying to overact in this leading role. After viewing 'XXX' I wouldn't mind seeing Vin in another leading role in another movie, even a sequel.The editing, or maybe the stuntwork, was superb. There weren't any jarring changes in camera angles to smooth out seemingly impossible action sequences that ignored the laws of physics. The film kept the viewer at high alert with every action shot, pushing the realm of the believable with each passing moment.The high-intensity pace was also a drawback. There were action segments that were drawn out too far. The viewer became numb to the steadily rising crescendo of death-defying and superhuman acts Xander was capable of. And, if you're in a theater with superb sound support, your ears will begin to bleed after just so much gunfire, engine squelches, explosions, and staccato techno beat.Some of the writing was quite clever, resulting in enough zingers from Xander to get even jaded movie audiences to chuckle and begin to identify with him.Samuel L. Jackson was an added bonus, though his stony exterior and odd sense of humor made it seem as if he was reliving his role in 'Unbreakable.''XXX' is a pretty good movie. It's not high-drama, doesn't tell much of a story, and won't make you think. But it will give some thrills and is one of those movies you should see on the big screen for the best effect. "}{"Title":"accomplishes what it sets out to do","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a true rarity in cinema, a sequel that outdoes it's original. XXX (clearly the Fast and the Furious 2) has overdone action sequences, while exciting and fun, are ridiculous and unrealistic. If what you are looking for is a adrenaline pumped, video-game styled action sequences, XXX has your fill for the summer. If you want a realistic, well done action movie, perhaps you should consider renting Black Hawk Down instead.  "},{"Title":"much better than expected","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  i went into this movie with low expectations, so that i would not be disappointed, however i was quite pleasantly surprised as the movie got going. The stunts were incredibly entertaining, some funny dialogue, and even though the plot was taken from bond, it was still unique in its own way,  i'd definitely see it again "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Firmly tongue in cheek in parts, all in all a decent action movie.  Well worth the full price admission for entertainment value.  Packed with action throughout and some really insane stunts.  Reminiscent of a good 007 movie, keeps the action going throughout the movie.  Don't expect any radical plot twists from this movie. "},{"Title":"Lots of Action","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in expecting not the greatest plot, but a lot of cool action, and that is just what I got. There was a lot of action, and not much time wasted between action scenes. The action scenes where longer than most, and many where completely new. I will admit there where quite a few cheezy one liners, but it did not detract for the movie at all. The plot was more creative than I had thought it would be, and the band was awesome. I could only hope they perform that way live. A very good action movie. "},{"Title":"A decent start.  Some tweaking on the sequel and it could be great.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought XXX wasn't bad, although there was a LOT of `creative plagiarism' going on.  You could tell that the producers wanted specific things in the movie that were taken from other (better) movies.Some things were a little over-the-top, though.  Namely the magical flying motorcycle stunts.  Somehow, the flying people in Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon seemed more believable.I liked the snowboard sequence and the car vs. sub scene.  .and the corvette jump was nice too.  Hopefully the 2nd and 3rd and 4th ones will just keep getting better.  After all, even James Bond wasn't all that great in the beginning. "},{"Title":"xXx Turn off your brain entertainment","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Action films make a good analogy to reality television, at least to me. Reality television has no real value, but in some cases it can be quite entertaining to watch. The same, in theory, holds true to most action films. While some are able to expand beyond the limiting shell of the genre, most, even some of the better, fall pray to it.And here is xXx, a starring vehicle for barritone voiced Vin Diesel, and an attempt at a movie franchise for years to come. Do they have their franchise? Probably. Is it entertaining? Yes. Is it really that good? No.The plot of the movie revolves around Xander Cage (Diesel)0, a rogue extreeme sports athlete who is eventually 'recruited' by Samuel L Jackson, in secret government agent mode, to serve his country. This doesn't sit well with Cage, but he agree's. This brings him into the fold of your typical Russian anarchists bent on destroying the world, complete with a romance interest for Diesel.xXx has some high quality stunt sequences, granted, at least one of them doesn't really make sense as to the reasoning for it, but heck, why ask questions?Vin Diesel has movie star quality to him. Even some corny lines can't hold him back. Diesel has what most other action stars lack actual acting skill. In the right roles, Diesel can really shine.If you're looking for a fun way to waste around 100 minutes, go watch xXx. If you're interested in watching some great cinema, turn for Minority Report or Road to Perdition instead. "},{"Title":"is this the best they got?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, when I saw the trailer, I only needed two action sequences to guess it and waited 'til this time to comment because I knew what was about to happen. Now it's happening, and I have to do it.  Everybody is comparing this cheap piece of crap with our good 007, and the way it is going to kick it's briTtish ass (of course, this comments come from americans). For those of you who are saying this kind of things, in case you have not noticed it ALL THE F.....ING ACTION SEQUENCES ARE TAKEN FROM JAMES BOND'S MOVIES!!!!!!.  Nothing but a cheap american version, tailor made for this bulk of meat,  to try to compete with a solid and classic character.  It is so pathetic, that it had to take all the cliches, action sequences and some dialogs from the original movies.  Which means, it's just a summary of 40 years of screen history of our good James. Can the americans be more original? "},{"Title":"Consistently Cheesy and Great Action","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  About what I expected.  XXX is filled with the standard corny one-liners you always see in action movies, but in this one Vin Diesel gets to deliver most of them.  He's about the coolest guy on the planet right now.  And the stunts looked great - like Vin really was jumping off of a car falling off of a bridge or outrunning an avalanche (great sequence, even if totally unbelievable).  If you loved the good 80s and early 90s Schwarzenegger flicks (or if you could recognize Tony Hawk in a crowd), then you'll love this movie.  Definitely 95% entertainment (meaning it's meant for the 95% of moviegoers who wouldn't know a Bergman film from a Buñuel film), but it's also a glimpse at how big Vin will become. "},{"Title":"Perfect Summer Movie","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I got a pass to see XXX. I was going to pay to see it, so I was glad I got the pass. Going into it, I expected a big, loud, dumb action movie with more style than substance. I was right, and the movie was quite entertaining thanks to the great humour involved. That's where the problem lies were they trying to be funny with the ludicrous stunts and cheesy one-liners (i.e. was this a well-done spoof of the spy genre)? Or was it actually trying to be a good movie, that happened to be so stupid it was funny? You can see how that line can be kind of blurry, but I'm willing to give the filmmakers the benefit of the doubt. So, if you're just another moviegoer, expecting nothing more than thrills, chills, spills and kills, XXX is the perfect summer movie. Expect nothing more. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as Good as we wanted it to be.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, we were really looking forward to this movie.  After Pitchblack and the Fast and the Furious, we were anxious to see Vin Diesel in an all-out action role.  He does do that and does it in true tongue-in-check action hero fashion, but this was mostly a rehash of old material.  It didn't really do anything new or special.  It is a great late night hbo romp or good weekend matinee movie, but we expected so much more. "}{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  i have to admit, i was dying to see this movie! so when i ended up with passes for an advanced screening, i was definitely pumped. not just because of vin diesel and his bulging biceps, but because it looked like a big ball of fun. and for the most part, it was. the action sequences were really great. there were two times (that come to mind) when they were a little more than far-fetched, even for this extreme sports athlete, but that didn't take away from the film. the storyline was great, in my opinion. it kept me on the edge of my seat at times. and it almost always flowed. (the revealing of his secret agent status was a little premature and way too risky for even james bond.) overall, i really enjoyed this movie... if i had to pick one drawback, it would be the dialog. some of the lines were really cheesy. i had that deja vu feeling (you know, been there, heard that). and cliches out the window, but still a good time!! "},{"Title":"Not great, but stays fresh.","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx is mediocre. While, it haves some enjoyable moments (action scenes, sex scenes etc.), plot It's mediocre. And the voice acting, is OK, but still this movie will stay always mediocre. And it haves a predictable ending, which makes it worse. However, I recommend it for action fans.The main part of the story is poor, but it haves some incredeble moments, that really saves this movie. And by showing cool technology, It even shows some unnecessary scenes. Voice acting is OK. But, they really know how to do the Russian accent. I don't recommend this, but for action fans, maybe It's worth.5.0/10 "},{"Title":" I've risked my life for many  stupid reasons, this is the first one that makes sense ","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The last time audiences followed the exciting exploits of Vin Diesel we saw him take the throne of the Necromonger Planet. This time director Rob Cohen, takes a Rich Wilkes story, called  XXX  and primes it full of non-stop excitement. Diesel plays Xander Cage, a free-wheeling, danger-seeking, adrenalin junkie out to impress his friends with his latest insane stunt to steal a fast car and jump off a platform bridge under the auspices of a camera. However, the U.S. Government having lost several top agents or spies, recruits him to do the impossible. He must infiltrate a ruthless, international, untouchable and powerful underground gang who are suspected of having in their possession, some biological components which they plan to unleash upon an unsuspecting world. With a horde of extremely amazing Hollywood Stuntmen, the director has created one of the most astounding, certainly the most exciting and heart thumping action films ever. From the jungles of South America, to the Snow laden mountain peaks of Europe, audiences everywhere are heard gasping at the death defying scenes performed by Vin Diesel and the cast which include Samuel L. Jackson and Asia Argento who plays agent Yelena. Although there are similar films like this one, few can match the serious nature of it's nail-biting finale. From beginning to the end, few will appreciate the enormous gravity of it's premise. Excellent movie and sure to be one of Vin Diesel's best. **** "},{"Title":"A man with athletic skills is accepted for a government mission","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I really liked this movie, it was both romantic and action packed. I am also a big fan of Vin Diesel because he is in my opinion a great actor. I also liked how this movie related to some of the previous action movies that I have seen. For one it really relates to some of the James Bond movies because their is always a hero that never gets killed. Vin Diesel also reminded of what he was like in the Riddick movies, it seems he was always the guy flying around cutting bad guys to shreds. I really like this movie and advise anybody who loves action movies to definitely see this one. It is a trip to see Vin Diesel in a mountains of explosions. "},{"Title":"Watching XXX is the cinematic equivalent of chomping a giant, greasy, triple-decker cheeseburger.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Brawny, bald-headed, baritone-voiced, tough-guy Vin Diesel radiates the kind of charisma and presence reminiscent of the late Telly Savalas. Savalas made a career out of playing notorious villains, most memorably arch-foe Ernst Stavro Blofeld in the 007 classic On Her Majesty's Secret Service (1969), until he won TV fame as the lollipop-licking N.Y.P.D. Detective Kojak(1973-78), who popularized the phrase Who loves ya, baby? Like Savalas, Diesel usually portrays villains, but his morally-ambiguous rogues heroically redeem themselves in thrillers like Pitch Black (2000), The Fast and the Furious (2001), and if it gets released in October, the long-overdue Mafia melodrama Knockabout Guys (2001). When he isn't cast as a bad-guy-gone-good, Diesel has provided the voice for the misunderstood monster in The Iron Giant (1999) and aroused sympathy as a doomed G.I. in Steven Spielberg's overrated, below-average, World War II bloodbath Saving Private Ryan (1998). Instead of signing up for the Furious sequel, Diesel has teamed up with director Rob Cohen, who called the shots on Furious, to produce xXx, a superficial, slam-bang, European-lensed spy saga in the tradition of James Bond but aimed primarily at the PlayStation generation. Although it lacks the originality of Furious, xXx compensates for its formulaic flaws with high-voltage pyrotechnics, unbelievable stunts, and a sadistic ex-Soviet officer with a scheme to topple all status quo governments. The hopelessly derivative screenplay by Rich Wilkes, whose credits include The Jerky Boys, The Stoned Age, and Airheads, plunders the Bond franchise but pays homage to Pulp Fiction and The Third Man. Diesel flexes his tattooed biceps as Xander Cage, an anti- smoking activist/outlaw Internet celebrity who risks his neck with extreme-sports escapades like stealing a right-wing California state senator's Corvette. Cage rigs the ride with crash- proof Sony cameras, so he can broadcast the footage later on-line and rebut the senator's campaign to ban rap music, skateboards, and videogames. Plunging the car off a high-rise bridge, Cage bails out with a parachute at the last minute before a fireball explosion obliterates the vehicle. Inevitably, the cops catch up with him. In swaggers National Security Agency honcho Augustus Gibbons (the incomparable Samuel L. Jackson with a facial scar like Play-Doh and a Velco-looking wig) who cuts a deal with Cage and packs him off to Prague. Xander penetrates a plug-ugly posse of perpetrators known as 'Anarchy 99.' Led by Yorgi (New Zealand actor Marton Csoka who played Celeborn in The Lord of the Rings) and his cold-as-ice concubine Yelena (sexy Asia Argento, renowned Italian horror movie maestro Dario Argento's daughter), these nefarious nihilists party hardy with German metal band Rammstein when they aren't assembling a hydrofoil sub to deploy their biological weapon named 'Silent Night.' Director Rob Cohen shrewdly shuns subtlety in xXx for the sake of super-charged sensationalism. This invigorating but uninspired PG-13 rated epic features a gratuitous number of superbly-choreographed car chases, acrobatic motorcycle antics, and ear- splitting gunplay, along with several obvious anti-substance abuse messages. Watching xXx is the cinematic equivalent of chomping a giant, greasy, triple-decker cheeseburger. "},{"Title":"Daredevil lawbreaker is enlisted by the U.S. government to penetrate a foreign organization.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Serious Vin Diesel fans may forgive the flaws in this movie (or not) and find it worthwhile. What's wrong with this movie? All the important things the acting (principally Diesel's), the action, and the script. All in that order.I personally like Vin Diesel and think he has presence but unfortunately he is a bad actor. Presence can only take you so far in the ACTING business. The people who made this film should have realized this and given him fewer lines. Let him play the strong, silent-type. Instead, they let him play a cocky, wise-ass. Mistake, since this type is talkative. Less would have been more.The same thing for the action. It was over-the-top and not believable. Nothing wrong with fantastic action as long as it's done so well that you believe it did happen, like a magician's trick. They should have done less of the over-the-top stuff to make the action more credible. People go to a movie to suspend their reality and enter an alternate as voyeurs. The success of this depends largely on credibility. In other words you, the movie-goer, can't be THERE (nor do you want to be) unless you believe it's happening.Lastly, the script. It's the least of the movie's fault. But considering everything I've said before the movie might have done better if it had leaned toward comedy. Then bad acting and poorly orchestrated action would not have been so visible. It could all have been considered a part of the comedy object.I give this film 4 stars out of ten which means you should see it if you have nothing better to do or you are a serious Vin Diesel fan who doesn't care. Love, Boloxxxi. "},{"Title":"Just Plain awful","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is just awful, bad acting, bad script, bad set, bad everything to be honest. Everything is crap. The acting and script are so bad it is just amazing. Vin Diesel can not act, nor can anyone else in this film or so it seems. The stunts are rubbish, are not believable at all. The James Bond movies beat this film by a mile. I am just amazed at why this film was every made at all or why anyone likes it. It is a lame Hollywood attempt of a spy film and it fails.The ending is bad as well, to be honest i don't know if there is anything good about this film. Actually i have just thought of something which is OK about it......the soundtrack. I still cant believe just how bad this film is....... "},{"Title":"Not passable","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The best thing I can say about this movie is that its opening sequence had Rammstein playing Bang Bang and that was supposed to be the xXx theme song, to much embarrassment. But the movie itself sucks a lot. It tries to be a James Bond with a bad ass flavor but actually fails miserably. Some of the action scenes are actually quite well scripted and I would'nt be surprised if others found them to be excellent but the way they've been executed makes them plain boring and one could even fall asleep. The story is the standard bad guy wants to destroy xyz place using nuke/bio/chem weapons. The villains come across as idiots and Vin Diesel sucks in his role. "},{"Title":"An Eye Popping Action Thrill Ride.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" A troubled seeker extreme sports expert Xavier Cage (Vin Diesel) is been unexpected recruited by the National Security. Xavier is been chosen by agent Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) to spy on a mysterious dangerous terrorist named Yorgi (Martin Csokas) Xavier finds everything to know about Yorgi... Xavier takes a liking to Yorgi's girlfriend-Yelena (Asia Argento). Xavier finds out that Yorgi is into something destructive. Xavier finds help from a weapon expert agent Toby Lee Shavers (Micheal Roof). Xavier decides to take the law into his own hands to stop and to be a real hero for once in his so-called life.Directed by Rob Cohen (DragonThe Bruce Lee Story, The Fast and the Furious, Slealth) made an extremely entertaining action packed thrill ride. Diesel is excellent is his role, which he gives style and humor into his role. xXx is for the play station generation crossed with the James Bond films.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an commentary track by the director. DVD also has plenty of featurette, an documentary, deleted scenes and more. This was One of the Biggest Hits of 2002. This is an action film that the young and old will enjoy, Also alivable in a Two-Disc Unrated Director's Cut. Followed by xXxState of the Union without Vin Diesel. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Great film, shame about the ending","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I would rather watch a poor film than a good one with an awful ending. xXx is just such an example. The film in my opinion is actually well done, has a good story, plot line, decent acting, and plenty of action to keep you entertained. No. It will never win an Oscar, but then actions movies rarely do. But for an action movie...there are a lot worse out there and xXx is one of the best. But the ending leaves you feeling like you have just found out that the winning number of 36 on the lottery ticket which has just won you the Jackpot, is actually a 38, and you actually just won a single note. I thought my TV had just tuned in to an episode of Sting Ray or Thunderbirds meets James Bond 1980. Awful. And whilst most action films are largely based on lies (ie man stands in front 10 people shooting at him with automatic machine guns and lives to tell the tale), this ending makes you sit up and think give me a break !! If you can take the worst ending in History, you will love the rest of this film. "}{"Title":"The New 007","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie. It was packed with action and special effects. I like the character because not all hot heads are bad people. Samuel Jackson did not look his best, but I know that was for the part he was playing. Vin Diesel did a wonderful job and looks great. I had no idea he was so muscular. I don't know how Ice Cube can compete in the sequel. The avalanche scene was unbelievable. How did any one snowboarder not get caught by the snow. I think it had to be computer helped. No one could beat that speed. I think Vin Diesel should partner up with Lara Croft of Tombraider. They both shoot, drive, and live on the edge. Talk about adrenaline junkies!! I hope everyone enjoys the movie as much as I did and I noticed women seem to like it better. I wonder why. My boyfriend liked it just as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Completely unbelievable but entertaining nonetheless...","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" If you're expecting an intelligent action movie, go elsewhere. If you don't mind the cheesy EXTREME generation of products and advertising that has assaulted us in the past few years and like watching things blow up then this is watchable. I never found myself wanting to turn it off although a lot of the scenes had me feeling truly embarrassed for Vin, who plays a much better Riddick than Xander Cage (I mean, come on, the lead character's name should give you a clue as to what kind of movie this is). Extremely clichéd, predictable, and obviously aimed at 13 year old boys, I still found myself watching it until the end which is more than I can say about some movies. The action sequences were great, Asia Argento was hot as usual, and there were occasional moments of coolness, but for the most part this movie falls flat on its face due to the contrived plot line, young target audience, and lack of violence that should be at least somewhat prevalent in an action movie with this kind of plot. I think 2 people were shot with actual bullets in this movie, the rest were tranquilized or gassed silently (no coughing up blood or intense scenes here folks). Then again, if you want to watch an action flick with your kids then I suppose this is the one. "},{"Title":"Awesome ride!","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Total, non-stop thrill ride! Has it all...intrigue, adventure, comic-relief, suspense and romance. This film is James Bond on steroids! Xander Cage uses street-smarts experience and sarcasm versus 007's polished sophistication. The set-up of finding a New Breed of Secret Agent is just enough to get you prepared. Samuel L. Jackson is excellent as the professional, disciplined veteran who pushes for a real-world solution to counter outdated intelligence methods. Great editing combined with a soundtrack that doesn't allow the film to slow down, XXX keeps you glued to the story and the camera angles of the GTO put one in mind of the Batmobile. Vin Diesel is the ladies' eye-candy and Asia Argento is simply hypnotic.Another unlikely hero film, Christian Bale & Taye Diggs in Equilibrium is equally worthy, albeit along a near-future sci-fi theme. "},{"Title":"Cohen disappoints me.","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx could've been something out of this world. An extreme sports nut is recruited into an agency. What is there to expect? Kick ass action, bad jokes and good fun. Did we get it? Well.. There is lots of action, but it is so soulless and pointless. The jokes are good (knocked over a few 7-11s, have we?), but there are like three of them. Fun? More like disappointment.After movies like Dragonheart, Daylight and especially The Fast and The Furious, we had every right to expect this to be nothing short of a good Bond knock-off from director Cohen. The idea is great, but the whole movie just feels so depressingly shallow, like Cohen's creative vain would have just dried up. The camerawork is boring and the angles destroy the action. It's supposed to be flowing freely, but here they just seem to cut takes together almost randomly. This movie promised loads of fun, but it ended up serving loads of s...** / ***** "},{"Title":"Just enjoy it!","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have read all the bad comments about XXX - knocking the movie's unfounded comparisons to the James Bond films, slamming Vin Diesel's acting ability, charisma and screen presence, and thoroughly lambasting the film's cookie-cutter Euro-baddies and illogical story line.You know what? You are all correct. And you know what else? I couldn't care less.Comparing Xander Cage to James Bond is like comparing the Incredible Hulk to Superman. Both are comic book heroes, but they have little in common. Bond is suave and debonair; Cage is muscular and quite throughly un-handsome. But it really doesn't matter. I went to XXX with no illusions about what I was going to see. I expected a 100-minute-long music/extreme-sports video, and that's what I got. And I was entertained every step of the way.When I was a teenager, I enjoyed all the lowbrow Arnie movies that came out (Commando, Raw Deal, Running Man); you watch them now, and you wonder for a moment why you like them. Then it hits you; because they are simple, good-guy/bad-guy shoot-em-up entertainment. And that's why XXX works; sometimes you need to watch a movie where you can just enjoy it without having to think too much about it! There comes a time in everyone's life when one, for the most part, grows out of movies like that. I will still go see the occasional lowbrow shoot-em-up, but not as often as when I was younger. Sometimes I am entertained, and sometimes not, but that's the risk you take with any movie. In this case, I was entertained. Very much so!It's a bad pun, but there are two kinds of films movies with action, and movies with acting. If one goes to a movie and expects one thing but gets another, they will be outraged, and pepper this website with negative reviews. My advice to them just enjoy it! How can one watch the scene where X snow-surfs down the mountain just seconds ahead of the avalanche and not go Whoa! That alone was worth the price of admission!In this day and age, all movies will be analyzed, dissected and scrutinized down to the microscopic level - that's a fact that won't change. But as far as this movie is concerned, I say only this put the magnifying glass down, park your butt on the couch and enjoy XXX; a campy, overly macho, thoroughly implausible, completely enjoyable romp.My score 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"If only...","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ... there were an actor worth the name in the title-role, this might have been a quite good action movie. As it is, the movie falls flat as soon as xXx (Vin Diesel) opens his mouth. Apart from this, the story and special effects are good, actually even pointing your mind towards Bond, though not as gentlemanlike an approach. If you are a fan of special effects and can see past V.Ds lack of acting talents, (hard but it can be done), you will probably enjoy this movie. If you need quality acting for your pleasure, then go see something else! "},{"Title":"IMDB score 5.8? Give me a break! 8.0 at very least.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the first time that I've seen IMDB's rating completely off the mark. This movie is amazing in every aspect, from Diesel's amazing athleticism to art design to set and prop construction, not to mention an amazing editing job to create an adreneline-pumping pace that almost never lets up.007 is history, XXX is the future.  All I can come up with by way of explanation for the current low rating is that a bunch of 70's burn-outs who don't even know what a FPS is, might have skewed the rating in this rare instance.  Suffice to say, if you are a Die Hard or Terminator fan, or a HALO or Splinter Cell aspirant or master, XXX will not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Great effects and Stunts. Fun. No-brainer entertainment. NOT art.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" There's an awesome avalanche scene in XXX, where our snowboarding hero is chased by monstrous tumbling snow. The 3D snow effects look real, and whoever made this scene deserves an award.Bloody huge explosions will rock your sub bass speakers (if you have 'em). Some nice pyrotechnics in this movie, for sure. The Director had money to burn, and burn it he did...blew it sky high.Lots of silly one-liners and cheesy dialogue will keep you laughing in between the action. You need to be in a particular state of mind to enjoy XXX. It is possible to enjoy it, or at least some of it.Apparently a stuntman died in the making of this film. In respect of the deceased I will say again that the stunts are damn good and worth a look. It's unfortunate the dialogue is so shallow- a bit more depth to the characters would have lifted the film to its potential. The editing too, was overdone. Just because 16 cameras are used in one scene, doesn't mean each one should be used in the final cut. Cutting to and from multiple angles in one moment in time will not make the stunt any more realistic. On the contrary, it drains the impact and energy from the action and breaks the flow.My vote 3/10  "},{"Title":"only 2 reasons to see it 1.to turn off your brain  2. to fantasize about Asia Argento","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"      This movie makes it clear from the opening scene that thinking is not welcome.  It does so by presenting dialogue and posturing so phony that thinking about it is pointless.  It literally forces you to sit back and try to enjoy it.  And if you watch the whole movie that way, it is pretty enjoyable in a mindless way (even though, just to remind people, if you did anything important without your brain, the result would be eventual disaster).     The male mind is wired so that we can fantasize about women whether we are thinking hard or not.  Thus, watching the lovely, seductive Asia Argento for 2 hours is very enjoyable here.  In fact, she was really the only thing I liked about this movie, to be honest.  And, please, no one, no one ever try to claim that this movie is smart.  You just can't be smart when you scream lines like I live for this .... for no particular reason. "},{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie seems to be scripted around stunts.  Some of the stunts are noteworthy, but otherwise the movie is very poor.  Plot, writing and acting are sub-par.  Even for a guy flick, this is pretty bad.  Rent something else. "}{"Title":"Dialog is just something to fill in the gaps between explosions","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie reminded me of a Gen-X version of James Bond.  The plot seemed to be an homage to the Bond series of movies, including a line by Xander The things I do for my country said into the camera, just before getting into bed with one of the villain's girls was almost a copy of a scene from a James Bond movie.  Also, the arch criminal has a ridiculously complicated, and expensive plot he is developing.  (Almost Austin Powers-esque)  He has dozens of people working for him, extremely high tech equipment, security, contacts etc.  The old One of the worlds most successful businessmen wants to wreck havoc on the world.  However in this case the US government has already lost too many agents trying to crack this one, so they just kidnap a 1/2 criminal, 1/2 gonzo journalist, 1/2 extreme athlete, Xander, and pretty much force him to infiltrate the bad guys.  Xander is famous enough to be recognized by the bad guys for his extreme exploits, but doesn't raise in other suspicions as he begins to investigate what they are up to.  Naturally Xander is able to do things that none of the regular spys could hope to accomplish.  Using his extreme sports skills he can jump mini bikes 40 feet into the air, while firing a gun, can operate the host of high tech weapons given to him by 'M'... oops I mean another agent, can parachute, out race an avalanche on a snowboard , and can do it all while making smug comments dodging bullets, and almost constant explosions.The movie is definitely for action junkies.  If you like lots of actions, lots of fire power, cruel villains and powerful heros then this is for you.  "},{"Title":"And I thought watching Vertical Limit was the worst experience this year!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Idiotic dialogues, stupid plot, awful sound track. It was not even funny the way James Bond films may be. The main actor could have been replaced by a wooden stick, without me being able to tell the difference ( Actually thats not true it would have been such a major improvement, because the dialogues are mainly spoiled by his part, that this wouldn't have passed unnoticed.). I have seldom seen worse  movies than this one. "},{"Title":"Nothing more than an excuse for lots of shooting and blowing-things up.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIt's hard to believe nearly ten years down the line after directing the moving Bruce Lee biography Dragon director Rob Cohen is churning out a movie as mindless and uninspired as XXX.Promoted heavily upon it's release and with a sequel already in production,it's obviously the type of movie that Hollywood has thought up to get audiences running in droves.And,like cattle,it's box office performance in the US would suggest this has been so.As you watch the film,you can see it's been made-up like a crowd pleaser.But if you look past the eye-floss,all you see is a very tired and weak story ,podgily garnered from your average James Bond film.Vin Diesel is admittently a very credible action hero,and could well have a career ahead of him starring in similar movies.And some of the action and stunts are breath-taking (the scene where he causes the avalanche near the end has to be seen to be believed,especially on a THX sound system).But in order to fully succeed,an action film needs a good script,an engaging story and really catchy dialogue.XXX lacks these three vital ingredients probably more so than any other recent action movie,and it certainly shows.So sadly,in it's case,it's more like two strikes......then you're out.** "},{"Title":"eXcellent, eXtremely eXciting!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great action movie, bottom line.  I have read many reviews of this movie, and most are positive.  But I am finding a lot of reviews that are negative, and they seem to be written by people who are simply cynical.So let this review speak to those cynical movie goers who have lost the imaginations they once had as kids.XXX is an inventive new spin on a great, old fashioned movie idea.  The idea of course is a secret agent movie.  Right from the beginning, Cohen lets us know he is nodding his hat to 007 when a Bond type agent in a tuxedo finds himself horribly out of his element at a Ramstein concert and is quickly killed off. From there the movie takes off on a roller coaster ride of awesome stunts, special effects, and ballsy adventure.For those of you who are knocking the special effects, take a moment to really analyze them.  All the effect sequences in the movie are totally on par with everything else out there right now.And, like it or not, the stunts in this movie cannot be ignored!  Many of the stunt sequences that look like they may have been CGI are ACTUALLY STUNTS.  The motorcycle jumping over the exploding barn is AMAZING.  There is no doubt that stunt guy got his eyebrows synged off!  Also, the end stunt when Xander is parasailing on a parachute attached to the speeding boat/missle.  I liked how Cohen added the suspense of the bridge coming up really fast, and Xander had to slide down the line, just barely ducking the bridge, to land on the speeding missle.  Those kinds of close calls and impending catastrophe really added to the excitement in the movie.  And it is PRECISELY that kind of inventivness that Hollywood so desperately needs! These are the sequences that were so horribly lacking in the MISSIONIMPOSSIBLE movies!Some of the cynics have also been knocking the dialogue.  But I found the dialogue to be fitting to the movie and substantive enough to keep me interested.  For example, the trademark Diesel Monologue during the corvette theft sequence.  Diesel is a great actor, and he has always been careful to choose rolls that allow him to put that talent first.  I also found his pithy comments to be surprising.  What I mean is, most of the time the pithy comments in movies like these are either ridiculous (like Schwarzenegger's have become) or obvious, like what Austin Powers does. (Yes, I know Austin is making fun of those lines, that is why it works in his movies.)  Diesel's comebacks and one liners are tough and clever.The one stunt that stood out to me as being distracting was the motorcycle jump at the columbian drug dealer plantation.  Vin Diesel appears to be flying or even HOVERING on the motorcycle in one part.  I think that was due to a bad job of editing, but that was the only sequence I found distracting.And yes, as everyone has said, the avalanche sequence is the most exciting in the movie.  I thought the special effects in that sequence were very convincing and the flow of the action was extremely well planned and resulted in a edge-of-your seat feel.As an added treat, the end credits play out over an amazing, eye-popping 3-D extravaganza.  I have never seen an end credit montage quite like that one. The 3-D animation kept me glued to my seat, despite the fact that the movie was over.  It appeared to be a very expensive compilation, and that alone was worth the admission cost.  No one else appears to be commenting on this unique end piece.  It was really entertaining and very well done.TRIPLE X was TRIPLE GREAT.  This is a great Tough Guy Movie, and if you didn't like it, then you are a sissy. "},{"Title":"XXX A snowboard load of fun","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  We enjoyed this new update on the spy genre tremendously.  We liked what was left out almost as much as what was left in; there were no corny jokes, no silly scene in which the hero confronts his nemesis and the two extra large goons.  Diesel's low key delivery, touch of vulnerability and boyish enthusiasim provided a perfect foil to the overdone sauve, wait for 'em gags in the Bond series.The action squences in the second half are second to none.  We'realready looking forward to the sequel!  Good soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Great film to check out if you havent already!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you've seen the movie then I don't have to explain what it's about. If you haven't seen the movie, then go see it! To make a long story short, the movie is excellent. I can agree with critics and people who have made previous comments on this site by saying yes, some of the lines are tacky, but the rest of the movie makes up for it by far. The stunts are excellent and are sure to keep a viewers attention. The actors are also great. Everyone should like the movie, not just females under 18. I cant wait for Triple X to come out on dvd! "},{"Title":"NEVER a DULL moment","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Adrenaline pumping, awesome, new twist to a boring genre, definately NOT disappointing, (i've seen some movies I've liked the trailers for BETTER) BUT the trailer does NOT ruin this movie! Both are GREAT!  "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Ever!!!!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is the best movie of the summer. It has the most incredible action scenes combined with the coolest Xtreme Sports. See it!!!!!!!!!!! If you see one movie this summer, see XXX, and if you decide to see 2 movies this summer, see Austin Powers In Goldmember, one of the funniest movies i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought that this was a really great movie! I'm not usually into action movies, but I thought that XXX was great. They definitely didn't waste a second of the movie-it was suspenseful and intelligent. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had been waiting for this movie since Vin Diesel's last film, Fast and the Furious, and I gotta tell you, I was not disappointed. The action sequences were awesome, Vin Diesel was, of course, amazing, and I thought the movie itself was great. Asia Argento was great in it, too, and I can tell we'll be seeing a lot more of her in the states very soon. And of course, what's a good spy movie without great gadgets? Which this movie was full of; My favorite being the blue GTO Vin drives in it. . . but yes, overall I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who loves great action stunts, extreme sports, spy movies, cars, and Vin Diesel.  "}{"Title":"Best Action flick I ever spent money on, well actually the only action flick.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have seen a number of action movies, its the price you pay for living with guys. I love the Bond films they are wonderful, but XXX out did any seen in any Bond movie in the first ten minutes.  There is more action in this movie than I can remember in most of the classic Bond films put together.  I loved every minute of the loud music, guns, and numerous explosions.  That is what action movies are all about.  No one ever went to see 007 because the dialogue was great or of Oscar calibur.  No way did anyone ever watch Bruce Willis in any of the Die Hard movies because his lines and the plot were real and deep and had meaning. No we watch them because they blow crap up and they have cool gadgets and do things that we dream about doing while we are sitting at the office typing another Monday morning memo.  For all those claiming that XXX is a ripoff lets just consider the fact that everything that can be done has been done. So now Hollywood is left with the prospect that they have to put a new spin on old classics that no longer apply to the younger generation.  Hence the extreme sports/ Bond angle, please don't demonstrate your lack of intelligence by assuming that people think this is something new. Now does XXX compare to A Beautiful Mind, or Lord Of The Rings....God NO.  But it does do what it sets out to do, it gives you $8 dollars worth of things that go boom, guns that shine, breasts that bounce, and stupid one liners that are quotable funny the moment you leave the theater.  Welcome to the Xander Zone.  "},{"Title":"I was very impressed, It had a lot of action and I loved the whole thing","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I absolutely loved the movie, last year my favorite movie was fast and the furious, now this one is one that favorite list. Vin Deisel, makes James Bond look small. I was a total thrill movie, with gadgets and action...it was so much fun to watch. i will definatelly be seeing it again. Samuel L. Jackson was also good, he made the movie a whole, I give it 2 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"XXX, A MUST SEE!!!!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you mix the X-games with James Bond you WILL come up with this movie. OK, let me begin by saying that if you have any faith in the ability of Hollywood and Rob Cohen to generate a quality product, go see XXX.  Triple X Starring Vin Diesel and Samuel L. Jackson is the enchanting tale of X-TREME sports star Xander Cage, the ultimate bad boy complete with menacing scar, witty catch phrases, and KUNG FU GRIP! By a strange twist of fate, Xander ends up being drugged and enlisted in the services of Samuel L. Jackson, to be James Bond.  In this realistic setting, being James Bond means being Vin Diesel. The last time I checked, James Bond jumped a dirtbike over an exploding fence while tending to his equally explosive libido with another bond girl.  Some people may tell you not to see this movie because the stunts are next to impossible, and completely outrageous.  I ask what better reason to go see an action movie?James Bond = boring, XXX = XTREME! "},{"Title":"My Thoughts On XXX","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  BAD.-O.K. action(visually)-Vin Diesil can't act-Incredibly corny-Impossible action sequencesXXX(the character)is-James Bond meets Gombas from the Super Mario MovieTRUST ME. DON'T SEE XXX. "},{"Title":"Look out James Bond, there is a new breed of secret agent.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was truly the ultimate guy movie. I loved it. It has everything a good movie should, babes, cars, explosions, and an awesome secret  agent with cool gadgets. I completely enjoyed this movie. I hope that it spawns many sequels. On one final note i would like to say, Lookout James Bond, there is a new breed of secret agent. "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel Rocks!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been waiting all summer for this movie and it delivers big time. The action sequences are high-octane and it has Vin Diesel in it. The plot is rudimentary, but all these spy movies exist solely for the action. Plus it has Vin Diesel in it. The music is wonderful and the stunts are nail-biters....and did I mention that Vin Diesel is in it?There's been a lot of talk lately about Vin's cultural/racial heritage. Let me just go on record here. I don't care and neither did any of my gal pals who saw the movie with me. We transcend several racial/ethnic groups and we all agree on one thing...Vin Diesel IS the man!! We don't care if he's Italian or Greek, if he's American or Canadian. The man is a hunk!! Those eyes, those lips, that voice!!! What else do ya want? And the man can act, too?! Please! We're already planning on second and third viewings to tide us over until his next picture blasts into our local multiplex which, by the way, won't be soon enough. VIN ROCKS!!! "},{"Title":"X marks the action, X marks the gadgets, X marks Vin Diesel kicking butt!  XXX rocks!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After The Fast And The Furious became the sleeper hit of 2001, grossing over $140 million at the B.O., star Vin Diesel, director Rob Cohen, and producer Neil H. Moritz teamed up again for the new action film, XXX.  When The Fast And The Furious had fast cars and hot women, XXX has hot women and cool gadgets.  But, the question is, is XXX better than The Fast And The Furious?   Oh yeah!  All the action, all the stunts, all the women, you know it's better.  And another note, Vin Diesel will be the NEW action hero.  If you like action, if you like The Fast And The Furious, and if you like Vin Diesel, then you'll love XXX.A+ 13/13 ****** (out of ****** stars) "},{"Title":"Dude, Vin Diesel rules.  Seriously.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Alright, so he's no Anthony Hopkins.  Heck, maybe he's no Anthony Michael Hall, but darn it, he has arms like tree stumps and a shaved head.  If you go to this movie expecting to see some really heartfelt acting, along with a really deep plot and some intriguing dialogue to back it up, you will be disappointed.  But you will also be an idiot.If you go to this movie expecting to see lots of stuff blowing up, and Vin Diesel doing all types of stuff that could never actually happen, you will get everything you want and more.  Throw in some hot chicks that aren't wearing much, a healthy dose of exotic cars and bikes, and some fun Cameos from all of our favorite extreme sports stars and female rappers, and you have the feel good movie of the summer.We can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Excellant Stunts...Awful Plot...","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX leaves you in a delimma, whether to include this movie in your all time greats or all time sucks movie. Though the film combines quite a lot of stunts and impressive scenes, the story is simply stupid. Starting with Samuel L Jackson (Agent Gibbons) comming up with the idea of hiring weirdos for intelligence work (surprisingly without any training whatsoever) and then putting them up for two tests. So who qualifies??? You got it!!! Our very own Xander (aka XXX) for a mission to Prague to gather intelligence on some wacko group that is trying to destroy the world (and spread anarchy) with bio-chemical weapons (we've heard that before). Too much already? Well thats not it....there are a lot of twists and turns and sometimes unneccesary stunts to get the movie going. Along the way you might laugh at our Superhero XXX and the magnificent stunts he manages to pull out, but at the end of the day you are bound to ask yourselves, did you really go to the movie to expect a good movie....i mean comeon all the publicity, all the trailers had one message with them...this is a movie with excellant stunts...it has no other message to give...so you decide what you wanna go for... "},{"Title":"Awesome Action Movie","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  For those who complained about the plot, I must respond by saying it's as good of a plot as you can possibly get on a pure action movie.If you want hard core action, you'll rate this 9 or 10.  Some of the best action ever.  An absolute must see for Action lovers. "}{"Title":"Triple Testosterone","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen all 20 of those James Bond films, and XXX puts them all to shame!As far as Action/Adventure movies go, in XXX the Action is hotter, the sex is hotter, the humor is funnier, and Vin Diesel is much more masculine that Sean Connery!  This is a much better movie than those classic Sean Connery Bond flicks.I prefer Van Diesel's performance of Xander Cage even to any of the Action/Adventure roles of Arnold Schwarzenegger or Sylvestor Stallone.I grew up in the 60s, and the American spy films such as Dean Martin's Matt Helm franchise, or James Coburn's two Flint movies were cool, but they were never quite as good as the actual James Bond films.Thus far, I'm finding the 2002 spy films, Minority Report, Austin Powers in Goldmember and XXX to be much, much better than the James Bond films.The coming attractions trailer for Eddie Murphy's I Spy also looks like it will put the Bond franchise to shame, as well.It wouldn't surprise me at all if the latest Pierce Brosnan Bond, Die Another Day doesn't even come in first place at the Box Office.MGM should begin sending out an SOS, because all the cookie cutter Bond films are so locked into that James Bond formula that it's just Same Old Stuff, Same Old Stuff, Same Old Stuff, Same Old Stuff....The fact that People magazine named Brosnan Sexiest Man Alive this year means little more to me than being named Employee of the Month.Let's face it, James Bond shouldn't be played by an actor who keeps turning down invitations to join the AARP.Vin Diesel and Sean Connery also have something in common They're BALD! It really works for Vin Diesel, but I'm sure if a woman had a romantic dinner with Sean Connery, she'd keep dropping hints about how he looks so much better with the hairpiece on.The premise of XXX about an ordinary fellow being suddenly swept into high profile espionage reminds me of Cary Grant's adventure in North By Northwest.Cary Grant was the first actor considered for the Bond role, but would agree to do only one film.  Too bad the producers didn't take Cary Grant up on that--but it was all about money.  (They want you to agree to do 3 at once so they don't have to pay you as much for the second and third one.)I'll be back to see XXX in the theater tomorrow.  There's something about watching the film with an audience that's much more satisfying than waiting 6 months to watch it again when the DVD comes out.There's bound to be a XXX sequel.  If it were up to me, I'd title that one XXX NC-17!You'll enjoy XXX.  I give it four stars.  "},{"Title":"Great Action, Great Actors, Can't Get Any Better..","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just recently was fortunate enough to view the movie XXX or Triple X, and can finally understand what all the hype is about. The director, Rob Cohen, most recently known for the high adrenaline rush of a movie, The Fast and The Furious, has completed yet another crowd pleaser. The movie combines the elements of action, suspense, and drama to form ANOTHER adrenaline rush movie. The movie describes the story of a sports daredevil, Xander Cage (Diesel)who is just about at the end of his free ride in the world, with all the s*** he gets away with. He has a run-in with Gibbons (Jackson) who gives him the opportunity to do something completely out of his shell, and help the country which is threatening to put him away for all his crimes. Things start to spiral out of control after that, when Cage realizes that he is getting into deeper stuff than he ever imagined possible. His cover is later blown, but it doesn't seem to faze him much. Gibbons decides he should be removed from the case, and has everything he has taught Cage about thrown back in his face, when his realized that Cage isn't going anywhere. Diesel goes from racing illegally with sick looking cars and something around every corner, to jumping out of cars falling off a bridge, and blowing up parts of the mountain to create an avalanche that traps the bad guys, leaving him to snowboard off home free. (For awhile at least) He gives an awesome performance, and everyone should go see this movie. Proving that he not only has sex appeal, but can act in any situation given to him. He'll be around for some time to come. It definitely gets 2 Thumbs Up  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought the movie was great.  It is James Bond for the new generation. It was non-stop action from start to finish.  There was a couple of scenes that were unbelievable and you could tell that they were computer-aided, but other than that, it was awesome.  I would go see it again, in the theatre. "},{"Title":"Move over Bond the name is Cage, Xander Cage. Enough said? Hardly!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  O.K. all here is my review of xXx.In the words of my son ...`That was a sweet movie totally Awesome. The best movie I've ever seen --- He is 11Ok now my opinion.....Vin played an excellent role, funny entertaining and most of all Vin is very sexy !!!! All the action that a movie would call for plus awesome visual effects not to mention totally cool stunts. Tony Hawk and Matt Hoffman play small roles as well. Every thing from skate-boarding to snow-boarding Xander does. This is a must see, must own movie. The only thing I could say that was missing from this movie was more of Vin  My advice ...If you haven't seen it you are missing out . This movie is worth the high ticket price. Vin is definitely `Leading Man' material. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was fabulous! Vin was great, smart, funny, and definetely handsom! All of the action kept me on the edge of my seat! I recommend this movie to everyone! Not bloody, no real bad language, and no brief nudity, but a ton of action, which made the movie perfect for me! This is definetely my favorite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Praises...","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Movie was awesome. If you can suspend disbelief for a little while... and who really minds doing that when you get to look at something as scrumptious as Vin Diesel. Yumm... this is what action movies should be like. Hot stars, awesome stunts, and great music! Yay! Even my cats gave it four paws up! "},{"Title":"Mindless fun and a gorgeous boy","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pure entertainment!!!! Beautiful scenery including nice shots of Prague, amazing, but not always believable stunts, and a gorgeous boy.. What a good mindless movie where you absolutely do not have to think. Just sit back, enjoy fast scenes, lots of explosions and a happy ending. "},{"Title":"High gloss cheese","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Back in the day, cheesy action films proved tp be disenchanted and formulaic. While XXX offers a whole new perspective to the action/spy genre, it proves to be nothing but a rebellious version of the latter. Vin Deisel proves he can carry a film with his charisma, but the rest of the film proves to be a big budget B-movie with plenty of cleavage and corny dialogue. While this film is a change of pace, it proves to bring little to the table. I will admit the film was entertaining, but don't expect nothing more than eye candy and dialogue compiled by your typical Hollywood screenwriting hack. "},{"Title":"If you want serious adrenaline rush, this movie is for you.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had the awesome privilege of winning tickets to see this movie premiere last night in Houston. Three days before the general public. I love action & Vin Diesel, so this was a movie I'd been waiting several months to come out. Fans of the Fast & the Furious will note similarities through the fantastic cinematography.  Rob Cohen did an excellent job!!!  This is not a movie for the faint at heart.  Non stop action throughout 6/8th of the movie. It's a movie for the Gen X for sure & I foresee xXx to be the 1st of many.  The stunts were at times almost unbelievable, but at the same time awesome to see!!!  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who loves action & definitely to those who love Extreme sports!!  It also had a little bit of humor, but not of the average sort. Of course it goes without saying Vin Diesel & Samuel L Jackson fans will not be disappointed.  GO SEE This Movie!!! "},{"Title":"A poser...","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is the movie that made me indeed hate Vin Diesel and label the worst action star ever and his vehicle is a prime example of what is wrong with the genre of action that I love so much. Vin Diesel stars as Xander, a would be rebel who is recruited by the CIA (Or someone big) to infiltrate a terrorist unit and then singlehandedly saves the world while getting the girl. XXX is a would be update for James Bond, and as such this proves an extreme arrogance to the audience. Basically the movie tells us that XXX is a rebel without a cause, a anti-establishment type who is needed because James Bond is outdated. (Hence the opening where a James Bond style spy is killed in a rave.) This is the message throughout, what makes this atrocity against mankind so laughable is just how derivative of the Bond formula. The gadgets, the girls, the super bad guys with elaborate plans, the skiing stunts (Okay Snowboards now, oooh!) and indeed the name is all borrowed from Bond. (Indeed, not sure if anyone has brought this up but XXX is actually the name of Bond's love interest in The Spy Who Loved Me) So with such derivative material, I suppose a watchable movie could've been made. Too bad that XXX represents a third rate Michael Bay movie, with appallingly soulless action, unexciting villains and a hero so dense that one can't believe such a worthless movie was thought of as a good idea for the man shooting it through his camera. Worst of all there is no edge, Diesel has less action star charisma than even Jeff Speakman (Although Diesel does play anti-heroes well.) and basically this movie is hopeless. Watch a real Bond movie for the real thing, don't watch this poser.As far as action flicks go, working your way down from Schwarzenegger to Diesel, is almost as much of a valley as working our way from heavy metal to emo. Diesel is truly a rotten action star.1/2* out of 4-(Awful) "}{"Title":"Stupid as every super spy movie. Fun as every super spy movie.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" *sigh* So, there we have a new breed of super agent. Beefed-up wise guy with anarchistic tendencies. That's who Xander Cage (Diesel) is - and hell, I like characters like that. First we have an insane terrorist threatening the world with a prototype WMD. Overdone to death. And that organization name... Anarchy 99 - who the heck invented this one?! I understand that Rob Cohen was on that anti-globalist hype and bearded guys in woodland cameo don't necessarily sell well, but anarchy has no sense whatsoever. Second we have spy gadgets - not too little, not too much. The GTO is somewhat a pastiche or parody of super spy car - and that's planned. Three we have evident mistakes, ie. Prague is shown being close to snowy mountains and and a medieval castle while in fact it's not - not counting the second motorbike escape scene it could be fixed with adding some travel scenes. Four not all characters are played on equal level. Yes, you can fall in love with Asia Argento (I did ;) ), Samuel L. Jackson as Gibbons is nice to watch and Vin Diesel as the tough-cookie smart-ass is okay too, but Marton Csokas as Yorgi is terribly cheesy. I don't know if he was told to act like a mad villain from 60's movies or did he screw it all up himself, but he's irritating.To be honest it IS stupid, but which super spy movie isn't? I think only The World Is Not Enough tried to be quasi-realistic, but this is a matter for another discussion. Anyway, XXX is stupid and that's why it's fun to watch. Because you know it's not serious.I had fun. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Though movies about spies have been created many times over through the years, xXx still carries an auro of uniqueness.Xander Cage (Diesel) is a character that doesn't nessecarily want to save the world. He'd rather live out his life being the extreme sportist he is. But, a heavy threat hangs in the air and he is roped into becoming a hero...and winning a woman along the way.Yelena (Argentino) is a far cry different from 'Bond girls' and fights Xander with biting words and suspician along the way of the movie...and we have our own suspicians about her.  "},{"Title":"The A-Team meets Con Air on GoofyGloo....","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ...Yikes this was BAD. I can enjoy it on a cartoony, Chuck Norris/Ahnold in Commando style level, I think-but put any brain power into it beyond using the remote and you will Not be happy. I had problems with the magical Flying Dirtbikes(over the 14' fence, over the house, outracing a strafing helicopter, etc etc-what is he jumping w/?), the CGI avalanche-this one I expected to see Bugs and Daffy a part of. The one-liners-Nice Fresh Powder, etc-pretty sad too.Sure some of the stunts-bridge diving, snowboarding, the racing around on everything in sight-the gadgets, all kinda cool in a Bond/tongue in cheek way. But c'mon-you don't buy a second of it. You KNOW Diesel sleptwalked his way thru this. You KNOW Sammy Jax took the $ and ran. You Know the slinky Euro-trashy gal and Martin 'Ted Healy'/'Caranthir' Csokas have been in far better things in their sleep....Etc etc.I find myself rooting for Vin in things like this, AND Pitch Black, etc-but you do want him to wind up in something better. This was Stallone in Cobra mode, it's just-junky, loud, and already dated via the music and whatnot.** for some Big dumb fun, but if they think they've made a franchise here, well, okay-but it's not much to grow on. Vin can do better, and has.  "},{"Title":"And I thought watching Vertical Limit was the worst experience this year!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Idiotic dialogues, stupid plot, awful sound track. It was not even funny the way James Bond films may be. The main actor could have been replaced by a wooden stick, without me being able to tell the difference ( Actually thats not true it would have been such a major improvement, because the dialogues are mainly spoiled by his part, that this wouldn't have passed unnoticed.). I have seldom seen worse  movies than this one. "},{"Title":"Average Bond for the extreme-sports generation","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anti-establishment internet warrior / extreme sports addict Xander Cage is approached by the NSA to get close to a gang of Eastern European hoods led by a guy called Yorgi.  NSA men are unable to get close as their training makes them stand out as agents of some sort.  Having passed the tests Xander gets close but discovers the depth of the gang's operations.This review contains MILD SPOILERS.  But, lets be honest here &#150; does the plot matter?  Who cares if you know whether X saves the world or not at the end.  If you're watching this hoping for a plot that you can't guess after 30 seconds then sorry &#150; you're in the wrong place mate.The plot is pretty daft and regularly completely lacks any form of logic or common sense.  The actual premise is OK for this sort of mindless film but the lazy writing shows throughout.  For example (and here be the spoilers) &#150; Xander snowboards down a mountain to attack a shack, does he wear white to evade detection?  No, he dresses all in black.  Also the final chase sees the submarine leave the fortress 5 minutes before Xander does.  When he catches it he says `that must be going at least 80 miles an hour' but yet he has caught it in his car despite going along windy country roads!  Oh, and the submarine itself, it runs on solar power but yet emerges from a basement on full power!  And while we're on the submarine thing &#150; why does Yorgi make a submarine?  1 &#150; it never actually goes underwater during it's journey and 2 &#150; why build a submarine in Prague &#150; it's a landlocked country!OK &#150; maybe these are me just picking up little flaws, as long as the film is fun then it's OK.  Sadly I found it all to be a bit average.  Some of the action sequences were OK but it did nothing special and only the budget set it apart from tonnes of Saturday Night Specials that you can get on TV or video most nights of the week.  The weak plotting annoyed me but the lack of sheer fun also got to me.  In a packed cinema there were a few titters and laughs but never anything that got a reaction from even the majority of the audience.I'm still undecided about Vin Diesel.  He looks cool and he sounds cool and he is definitely a sexy guy but `the new Bruce Willis'?  I think not.  His one liners are often weak and he is only good when he is being natural at the start &#150; but this tires after a while.  He does the action stuff OK but his personality is all in his muscles.  Willis at his best was a good action hero/normal guy.  Diesel is more like Schwarzenegger &#150; all muscles and little personality.  Argento is average and Csokas is a real `rent-an-eastern-European-thug' type of villain.  Jackson is a real let down &#150; talk about in it for the money!  Just days ago I was praising him for his great work in Changing Lanes, and then I see him sleep walking through this! Little cutie Eve (Ruff Ryders) is wasted &#150; she is not great but she is sassy but you could barely call her role a cameo.The film opens with the murder of a special agent dressed in a tuxedo &#150; basically telling us that Bond can't cope in this world and here's the new hero.  But I don't buy that &#150; XXX may get one sequel but it is not good enough to have anywhere near the draw or success of Bond.  In fact many of the stunts are straight out of Bond &#150; witness the `Stars and Stripes' parachute and tell me you've never seen Bond do that same stunt, this goes for several of his scenes actually.Overall I found this enjoyable but actually pretty average.  I didn't expect a great plot or great writing but I do expect fun or energy at some level.  The kids will love it but even an undemanding audience may have reservations about the arrival of the secret agent for our generation &#150; it just made me look forward to `Die Another Day'. "},{"Title":"What a movie","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was really looking forward to watching this film, with all the hype, how could it be bad. WRONG.This has to be the worst movie have I have ever seen, great effects, but what about the acting.  "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel is an extreme sports athlete who is brought into a top secret government program  by Samuel L. Jackson to nab a crime boss (Marton Csokas). Problem is Diesel becomes smitten by his boss' girlfriend (Asia Argento). There's plenty of flash, but little substance. Unlike previous films where Diesel had a commanding presence, he comes off bland this time around. Saving it from the gutter is Asia Argento in a performance smoldering with sexuality. Her sexuality and charisma is unlike anything seen in an American film ever.Rated PG-13 for Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"The Best Summer Movie This Year!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not generally a big fan of action-packed films, but after seeing The Fast And The Furious I really began to like Vin Diesel and had my mind set to go see Triple X. Although my main reason to go was to see him, I enjoyed the movie very much. The lines are clever, the stunts were amazing, and Vin's acting performance was very notable. Usually when there are a lot of stunts performed in films, you don't see the actors' faces because it's not them, it's stunt men. It was really awesome to see so much of Vin's face while the stunts were being performed. It was also refreshing to watch the entire movie without too much profanity. It was very sporadic and the 'F' word was not used once. The movie was so good I developed a craving to see it again and it was nice to not be too embarrassed of the movie to take my mother to see it. I give Triple X two thumbs up, it's truly the best summer movie of this year! "},{"Title":"The Xander Zone!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I waited all summer to see this film and it was DEFINITELY worth the wait! Vin Diesel delivered an unbelievable performance. His co-stars also did an excellent job. XXX had a great plot- the bad turned good guy, the real bad guy, and the hard to figure out girl. I will be first in line to buy xXx on DVD. "},{"Title":"Not so bad at all","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all, this is one of the better movies Vin Diesel has made. Agreed, Jackson acts like he's got something dead under his nose (actually next to his nose, but hey, you know the saying) But the action/effects are a James Bond/secret agent movie worthy. And I'm a sucker for music during the movie. Adrenaline and Feuer Frei both are perfectly mixed into the movie. Maybe the role of Jackson should have been played by someone else, someone else unknown like all those other actors that don't even have a picture on this site. What I like the most about this movie, is the concept. Criminal/adrenaline junkie gets second chance by posing as an undercover agent. "}{"Title":"No Brainer","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" No brainer...as in if you don't have one you will probably enjoy this movie.A film with all the narrative depth of a video game and a lead character of cartoon proportions. It looks like one of those music videos where the visuals triumph over the song.Plot holes? Don't get me started! The premise is ridiculous and it just goes downhill from there.I didn't cheer for the big guy. I didn't care about any of the characters. I didn't care what happened next. I didn't care.A thrill a minute if you're 12 years old and/or emotionally retarded. Otherwise it's an insult to the intelligence and an utterly vacuous bore. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lots of action, explosions, extreme stunts and chicks. This film had everything you could want in a movie, it even had a reasonable plot. There was not a dull moment in this film. This movie will be a success for all the reasons James Bond movies succeed. This film is truly a movie for every heterosexual male on the planet. "},{"Title":"Another extravagantly boring spy movie..","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Xander Cage is a extreme (something)....He is hired by the government to infiltrate a criminal organisation. I felt that this film could have been something more without the guns that seem to look like futuristic weaponry systems...An agent who is raw and uses brute force...But what we got instead was a guy who likes to be in danger...Vin Diesel didn't really work as the secret agent, he just didn't have the suave manner and the plot wasn't working in his favour at all..It's basically another big summer release were big explosions, sexy women, gun shoot-outs and a formulaic plot keep the masses happy... "},{"Title":"Still fun after all this time!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" In order to get the bad taste out of my mouth from the humorless, depressing Casino Royale, I treated myself tonight to XXX, which I originally thought was an excellent roughneck American version of James Bond anyway.This movie is just plain fun; the cast is great, the stunts and premises are imaginative, the music is terrific and the quirky humor gets me every time.I do wonder why any mention of Marton Csokas by name is so obviously omitted from the we're-all-one-big-happy-family making of material; was there trouble on the set? Or did his reputed publicity-shy attitude contribute? Because he was, along with star Vin Diesel and Asia Argento, pivotal to the success of the movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome Action Film That I Really Enjoyed, With An Amazing And Fun Performance From Vin Diesel!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is an awesome action movie that i really enjoyed, with an amazing and fun performance from Vin Diesel!. One of the main reasons i liked this so much, was because it really reminded me of James Bond movie, and it actually had a cool plot to it, plus Vin had some awesome one liners and looked damn cool in it!. Vin and Asia Argento have really good chemistry together, and Martin Csokas is pretty menacing as the main villain, plus Samuel L. Jackson really was amusing in his role!. This movie is filled with exciting action, however only problem i had was it did go on a little bit too long, however that being said not one minute of it was boring, and Vin will keep your entertained throughout the running time!, plus the stunt work was outstanding!. Basically This is fantastic mindless entertainment, and i love mindless entertainment, and that's what i got as i really really enjoyed this film and think you will too!,as it's a must see!, however i refuse to see the sequel.The Direction is very good. Rob Cohen does a very good job here, with some incredible camera angles, crazy angles, good slow mo shots and he kept the film at a very fast pace!. Not much gore except for some gunshot wounds. The Acting is awesome!. Vin Diesel is AMAZING here, he is tons of fun to watch, damn cool, had some awesome one liners, had really good chemistry with Asia Argento, was such a bad ass, and wasn't really required to act here, however it was awesome to see him at work! (Vin Rules!). Asia Argento is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS, and is excellent here, she had really good chemistry with Vin Diesel, was very convincing, was great fun to watch, and damn was she good eye candy!. Marton Csokas is pretty good as the main villain, however he really didn't have much to do. Samuel L. Jackson is AMAZING as always, and was really awesome in his role here,i loved the scenes with him and Vin Diesel, and was as always tons of fun to watch!, i just wish he had more screen time. (Samuel Rules!). Rest of the cast do good. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the action genre----2/10","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Triple X is one of the worst movies i have ever seen. To begin, none of the actors even try to get into their roles with the exception of Samuel L. Jackson, who has an incredibly lame name, Augustus Gibbons. Please. Vin Diesel could have been replaced by a steel pole and i wouldn't have noticed. The only good thing? Asia Argento is hot and a good distraction from the rest of the crap on screen. The so-called action scenes are weak and unexciting. They looked like they were put together with firecrackers and toy cars. Triple X would not last five minutes with James Bond. And i wouldn't last five minutes if i tried to watch it again. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Flashy, derivative action stereotype....","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First off, I think I was half-drunk when I saw this movie, and yet it still came through as another flashy, explosion derivative popcorn flick in the genre Schwarzenegger so nicely carved out for Hollywood.Vin Diesel is a half decent actor, but I wouldn't call this movie his holy grail. In fact, any of his other movies are better than this one, simply because every other movie of his made sense. I felt this one just kind of throws both Diesel and the viewer into the action without giving us a half decent reason for him to be there in the first place. XXX's strongest redeeming element is it's mindless action - you can just turn off your brain, because you won't have to think once while watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Hell, I quite liked it","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" All I really wanted when I sat down to watch xXx was an action flick with some sex chucked in, and the odd cool technical thing. Leaving my judgement and values at the door, I waded right into the thick of the strangely harmless gunfire, unlikely situations and ho-hum dialogue, and I enjoyed myself thoroughly. I don't care whether Vin Diesel can act or not - and he can, in my opinion - I think he's gorgeous, and he certainly has the physical presence to fill this role with the requisite amount of aplomb. He might be a thug, but he's a thug with a soft voice, bright eyes, and big muscles - and he's perfect as Xander Cage. Candy for the brain, candy for the eyes - that's what xXx is, and I like candy once in a while. "},{"Title":"How is X going to get out of this predicament?","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ... Oh, he shot his way out. Didn't see that one coming. How will he escape next? You never know with someone like Xander Cage. His problem-solving capabilities range from shooting, blowing s**t up and driving really, really fast. Yeah, the movie's pretty stupid. No. Don't quote me on that. Quote me on this the movie was VERY stupid. Now, I don't mind stupid. Hell, I love stupid. The right mix of stupid and bad-ass can make for very rewarding viewing experiences (ie, 2004's The Punisher). Unfortunately someone forgot to throw in the bad-ass in this. Just like Cohen's previous effort The Fast and The Furious, xXx panders mainly to the Limp Bizkit crowd. Who could have known you can't write poseur without three x'es?Infusing the soundtrack with embarrassingly bad hardcore, Cohen lets you know immediately you're in for a particularly annoying ride. A regular Bond-like spy is assassinated (at a Rammstein concert, of all places!). Nice symbolism there, Rob. Out with the old, in with the new, huh? Superspies don't cut it anymore people, we'll need... EXTREME SPORTS JERKS!Especially painful is that he has three pretty charismatic leads (although Diesel's no Dwayne Johnson) and a capable villain. Imagine what this could have been with a director like John McTiernan and an R-rating... "},{"Title":"Extreme Fun","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" An extreme sports athlete, Xander Cage (Vin Diesel), is recruited by the government on a special mission.I wish I didn't like this film. I mean, I'm not typically someone who goes for over-the-top action films. I like the cheesy 1980s ones from Cannon and all that, but I am not huge into the fast cars and all that. And that, this film won me over.Most likely it had something to do with the metal aesthetic. Opening with a Rammstein concert, flames and all, definitely caught my attention. And then you cast Asia Argento? Good choice. She had a few good years and this was probably one of them... "}{"Title":"Cage in a rage","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Fast and Furious director and star (Rob Cohen and Vin Diesel) reunite to take on the world of espionage. From the early moment we see a spy infiltrate enemy territory and then reveals a tuxedo but is soon out of sorts when he has to blend in during a metal concert.Blending in as the new century arrives is not a problem for Xander Cage a big muscular, tattooed extreme sports addict who has been recruited by Samuel Jackson doing an early Nick Fury impersonation to go on a mission and do his bit for the Stars and Stripes.The plot involves renegade Russian anarchists who want to destroy major cities by way of biological weapons and install a new world order. The group has already been infiltrated by Russian agents and unite with xXx to take out the bad guys and weapon.The plot is indeed pure Bond with its European setting but Diesel does not cut it as a super-spy but extreme sports addicts might enjoy Diesel trying to out ski an avalanche.The film is also too long, it needs to be tighter, the bad guys are unmemorable and as the years since this film has shown. Bond is still the man whilst Diesel bailed out for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Xander Zone.","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I first saw this in the theatres. And it made me a instant fan of Vin Diesel's. Now the story is unique. In the beginning we see a secret agent kill a man and take a chip off of him. He then pulls off his overalls to reveal a tuxedo. James Bond style except he's pursued into a heavy metal club where he sticks out like a sore thumb and killed . The chip taken off him. We then are introduced to the National Security Ageny where they have tried unsuccessfully to infiltrate Anarchy 99. Then Augustus gibbons has a plan. Infiltrate it with a man who is like them. They select Xander Cage a action sports star Cage is a rebel Anarchist. After Cage steals's a senater's Car he's captured by the NSA and after a couple of tests. Extreme tests. He's sent in to infiltrate Anarchy 99. Once Cage is in. He goes in deep and uncovers a Evil deadly plan. And Cage encounters a Evil so pure. He cannot turn his back on it he must fight it. In the process Xander Cage becomes a hero and a Agent of the NSA.I always viewed this movie as a update of James Bond. Bond's old tuxedo ways wouldn't fly here . There is enough punk type bad guys that view Tuxes as old and boring. Bond would've Never gotten close to Anarchy 99. He would've been killed the second he left the plane.Vin turns in a star making performance. And Samuel L. Jackson is good as always. The movie is not to all tastes. But it is entertaining to those who like this kind of movie. And besides it's my favourite Vin Diesel role and Movie. "},{"Title":"Outstanding intelligent action film starring Vin Diesel","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I have grown extremely tired of the typical formula spy film like the James Bond series or the juvenile stunt exhibition like Mission Impossible. There have been a bare handful of spy films that feature relatively realistic spy thrillers, especially recently with a concentration on spectacular movies that have less substance than cotton candy.Enter XXX. I was looking forward to seeing this because it stars Vin Disel but when you actually see, it simply blows you away on every level.Yes, XXX has a particularly deep plot but it is consistent and focused. The focus is entirely upon Vin Diesel and his character, Xander Cage and how he is to deal with ruthless, international thugs.Some people have complained about being confused by the movie maybe because a lot of the takes place in faraway places like Europe. I for one, do not need to have everything spelled out since in many cases this smacks of unreality in the first place; the essence of espionage is drawing conclusions from very sketchy information. If you can't handle a little of that, you probably should stick to Disney films or TV's Scooby Doo where everything is explained in the end. The film grabs your attention from the very beginning and it never lets you go. You feel like you are right there with Vin Diesel.Most of the action scenes are believable with Xander Cage using modern gadgets to solve problems. And our hero shows definite signs of physical vulnerability despite a very high level of training and competance. The fights in are fast, nasty, and very realistic while still being entertaining for the layman. While maybe not being perfect, XXX is, simply put, several grades above the typical spy film. The implausibilities are kept to a minimum and the realism to as high a level as possible while still being spectacular enough to meet the expectations of the genre. "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel the spy?","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Although Vin Diesel doesn't have many characters on his acting plate, he never fails at grabbing people to the movies. I'm guessing just because of how low his voice is. Anyway, Mr. Diesel hasn't played any ordinary characters, at least ones that involve a major role. Pitch Black (2000) and The Fast and the Furious (2001) were the films that propelled him to where he is now, but both characters had abilities that allowed them to be almost superhuman. Here, Diesel plays just a very skilled professional.Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage, a popular stunt artist who believes that the majority of the government's laws don't apply to him. It is because of this attitude that he carries, that makes other civilized people not so fond of him. However, there is one person who finds Cage to be quite beneficial to the US government. His name is Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) and he's got a proposal for Cage. If Cage can infiltrate an evil Russian crew and obtain important information, Gibbons will make Cage's problems go away. Sweet, so in other words, Cage will become a spy! So to become a spy he needs a nickname - how about triple X (xXx) because he has three X's on the back of his neck? That works. It's almost like a new name for the spy genre. Instead of 007, its xXx. Is it appropriate to the character - yes. But honestly, will anyone really find this memorable? I guess some would. It depends on your opinion of the character. Rich Wilkes, the writer of this movie does make the character of Xander Cage likable. It's just odd how he writes the story in a fashion that makes it sound like hiring uncivilized people to do civilized jobs are okay. I mean, sure it's okay if every person who doesn't like authority was like Xander Cage. Why? Because Xander Cage does have moments of character development.But to honestly think that a plan like that could work? I don't know. Anyway, the acting is good. Vin Diesel puts a good performance for a guy who only knows how to be a spy for literally a week (that's what he says). Jackson also is convincing as Cage's boss. In fact, Diesel and Jackson exchange some funny lines with each other so it works. On the flip side, I wasn't charmed by any of the antagonists. Martin Csokas as the main villain is one the most unlikable characters there. Sure he makes himself a good villain but villains can have charm too. There is no charm with this man. His attitude towards society makes Xander Cage's attitude look like fluffy pillows.As for action goes, there is a lot of it. But it feels brain dead every now and then, which can get tiresome. Adding to that is the musical soundtrack. Various artists sound themselves through the film but if you're not a fan of heavy metal or at least heavy rock, you as a viewer will have a hard time enjoying the film because it does come up quite a bit. As for the musical score, it does have a main theme and is effective during sentimental moments too. The composer, Randy Edelman is not a novice to this kind of genre so I have no complaints with how he composed his music. However, I do wish it was more frequent in the movie. The actual soundtrack containing various artists seemed more dominant. Other than that, it's a decent action flick with enough Diesel to fuel your interest. Just expect anything too clever.Vin Diesel does his best to be the next generation of the spy genre but the movie plays big, loud and stupid at times. Not to mention that the villain has nothing to be liked about. It's not all bad, but it could have been better. "},{"Title":"No thinking Thrill ride....I liked it!","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first saw this movie I was skeptical. It seemed like a decent action movie but the storyline was, well, B movie at best. Boy, was I wrong, this was a pretty fun movie. I give it an 8.This one is about an Extreme Athelete, Xander Cage (Vin Diesel), who is unwillingly recruited to perform a black ops type of infiltration of an international criminal organization. Yes it is kind of a stupid idea, but in the genre of action movies, many story lines are.I gave it an 8 because the action sequences are exciting and fun,and the pace of the movie makes it even more fun. The acting was a little weak, but then again it is a Vin Diesel movie. I am not too proud to say that I have a crush on Asia Argento and wish she did more Hollywood movies. For that point I definitely got my Asia Agrento fix.This is not for you if you want to sit down and watch a well thought out espionage thriller this, but if its some mindless action you crave it is absolutely what the doctor ordered. You may find the storyline a little outrageous but what it lacks there it makes up for in exciting action, and that's all it really is suppose to be.Like my reviews? Hate em? Comments, hate mail, need a DVD reviewed? Shoot me an e-mail at subliminal.lithium@gmail.com "},{"Title":"This is an incredibly adept and insightful parody of the Bond genre that has been railroaded as an attempt at a serious action film.","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Triple X, is an updated version of James Bond battling the evil forces of SMERSH or SPECTRE or whatever group of baddies are in the mix at the time. Vin's character, the extreme sport athlete known as Xander Cage, is the ideal candidate for this type of assignment. He's agile, quick on his feet, and knows how to deal with the counter culture. Some people have said in reviews he is not acting in this film, but they are probably the same folks who feel that Anthony Hopkins is just another pretentious Englishman. Samuel L. Jackson does an excellent job of portraying the pragmatic NSA operative who realizes the world is changing, even if his superiors do not. Marton Csokas (and the rest of his mob) are all two dimensional, stereotypical bad guys, and the good guys are the same...which is exactly what they needed to be for this film. Asia Argento may never win an academy award, but she rises to the task in xXx portraying Yelena, the forgotten FSB agent who is trying to survive. The real treats in the film are the inclusion of Danny Trejo as the Columbian drug lord and Michael Roof as Toby Lee Shavers, the Q of the NSA who has only two loves, making impossible weapons and chasing (unsuccessfully) hot women, of which there are plenty in this film. In short, this is an incredibly adept and insightful parody of the Bond genre that has been railroaded as an attempt at a serious action film. And that is particularly disturbing considering how often we use the letter X to denote extreme. When you watch this film, enjoy it for what it is, a flight of fantasy taken to the Extreme. Rated PG-13 for violence and language and some innuendo, the teens in the house ought to enjoy this as much as anyone who likes Bond genre films. If you are a collector of spy films, this is a must have. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I am going to make this review extremely short and simple for those of you, who much like myself, check to see if it's worth watching or not.A. If you like Pitch black, Chronicles of Riddick, The Fast and the Furious etc. you will love this film.B. If you like classic action story lines you will love this film.C. If you like the bad guy persona willing to help the good guys and more than capable of doing so you'll love this film.D. If you love Vin Diesel, you'll love this film.E. If you love hacky sack, you'll love this film.F. If you love action, just watch it, if you do not like it, you are a snob, if you do like, it worked, congrats. "},{"Title":"Bond he ain't","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Not that the movie tried back then to be like a Bond movie. It tried to update the spy movie/myth into the modern day. The key word being tried. In my eyes it never achieves that goal and I do like Vin Diesel (although more his Pitch Black character or his recent Find me guilty movie)! That this isn't the greatest action movie, that has been established by others here before. There's not much story here, but that can be forgiven, because it's an action movie! But where it really fails, is the sometimes bad choreography of the action scenes. And that is something that cannot be forgiven or overlooked. Especially a motorcycle stunt is edited so badly it nearly made me sick! So all the updated spy things (character, gadgets and so fourth) are thrown away at the end ... "},{"Title":"Stick to John le Carre and Robert Ludlum","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Dear Readers,Xander Cage is a menace to society. He routinely harasses public figures and performs incredible stunts and records them on Video to sell over the internet. After pulling a stunt with an extremely biased Congressman's car and driving it off a bridge into a gorge, Cage is arrested by the NSA, led by a scarred man named Agustus Gibbons. Cage is 'hired' to work getting information on a terrorist group known as Anarchy 99, led by a goth named Yorgi and his assistant, Yelena. Cage discovers Yorgi has access to a biological weapon and is planning to use it. With Yelena's help, Cage battles Yorgi to stop his fiendish plan and save the world.I first watched xXx on TV a couple of times and I thought it looked pretty good. I bought the DX and I got real uncomfortable so I took it back. Finally I rented the theatrical edition from a local Movie Gallery. I watched about an hour of it till it came to the 'The Things I'm gonna do for my country' scene and its full frontal nudity. I immediately turned it off and decided not to collect it or its sequel, State of the Union, which I had actually watched first. From what I saw, there really isn't as much action as you think there is from what you get in the trailer. You're basically bombarded with punk and Gothic rock for 2 hours and it bores the slag out of you. Take my advice and stick to The Bourne Identity and John le Carre.Signed, The Constant DVD Colletor "},{"Title":"All Style, No Substance","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There's no doubt that the movie looks great, from the cinematography to the stunt work and action sequences.  The only negative in this department is that every now and again the camera gets too close during an extreme slo-mo shot, and we can clearly tell that the person performing the stunt is not Vin Diesel.  Also on the positive side are the supporting performances of Samuel L. Jackson (as usual) and some of the bad guys.  Unfortunately, the movie does have some drawbacks, most notably the plot, dialogue, performances of the two lead actors, the ending, and the almost complete lack of originality in concept, design, or storytelling. All in all, it's not a complete waste of time thanks to a few pretty thrilling moments. However, by the last twenty minutes you'll probably be waiting for it to end. "}{"Title":"Decent action sequence but lacking overall!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  (Spoilers)XXX is just what I expected it to be, a dumb action movie. I can't say I completely hated it, but I definitely disliked aspects of it. Vin Diesel's character, Xander Cage, comes off as this obnoxious supercool schmuck who suddenly finds himself going from extreme-sports vigilante whose annoyed at the government, to an overnight secret agent working for them in the same vain as James Bond. There are so many Bond-esque moments that you roll your eyes, and even the ending is straight out of every James Bond flick. Xander Cage, as a character, is down right annoying, and even seems like he's trying to be the teen-friendly spy hero, with the lame anti-smoking quibs, and the I learned this playing Playstation 2 in reference to using some weapon. The bad guys are even worse, a anarchist Russian group headed by Yorgi (Marton Csokas) and his beautiful girlfriend, Yelena (Asia Argento), who are motivated to destroy the world so they can enjoy the absolute freedom they already seemingly already have. Add a few more twists for Xander Cage, and you've pretty much got this film.Vin Diesel is extremely flat in this film, and Samuel L. Jackson doesn't really add much to the mentor/teacher role. Considering Marton Csokas is from New Zealand (he's Celeborn in 'The Fellowship of the Ring'), he performs quite well as Yorgi, and I was actually hoping Yorgi would come out on top. What saves this film from being a complete disaster is that it's very easy to watch, and there are some decent action sequences and impressive stunts. Some of the cinematography was pretty good as well, but overall, you are not missing much. This is getting a sequel, and I won't be rushing to see it. XXX's downfall is probably because it's directed by Rob Cohen. A director, whose resume is rather unimpressive with his last few films. Action-sequences aside, Rob Cohen needs to make a film where the characters are interesting and cool, as opposed to trying to be interesting and cool! Which is basically what Vin Diesel was doing in 'The Fast and the Furious' and also here in 'XXX'. And it ain't surprising, Cohen's 'Fast and Furious' basically was 'Point Break' with cars, and 'XXX' is basically James Bond with an tattooed extreme sports-action criminal in his place. Neither of his two films is very original or very good, and yet they both subsequently have Vin Diesel. The conclusion is that Diesel and Cohen should stay away from each other and not make any more teen-targeted action movies that have no substance. Like I said, some decent actions sequences, but overall, 'XXX' is not very good.**½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had heard quite a few bad things about xXx before seeing, so I wasn't expecting much when I finally watched it. But, to my surprise, it wasn't that bad after all. Sure, it certainly is no masterpiece, and the plot is quite ludicrous (though it's not any worse than, say, the plot of any of the James Bond movies...), but in the end, it IS just an action flick. It aims to entertain with explosions, stunts and some hip and cool (though not very believable) characters ... and it does just that. So, if you're looking for some easy entertainment you won't need your brain for, go watch this movie. Yeah, it's a guilty pleasure, but ultimately an entertaining one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, please...","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  *SPOILERS* Vin Diesel does a good job at playing himself a big goon with a deep voice. In this movie his name is Xander Cage but friends call him X (eye roll).  He loves extreme sports and ugly tattoos. Somehow his reckless behavior makes him suitable to be a secret agent. There's a lot of action; motorcycle escape, intense snowboarding, etc. I thought that silver platter surfing deal down the staircase was lame as it was so obvious it was fake. It tries very hard to be a new kind of action/spy film but there's nothing original going on here. In the beginning they show an agent similar to Bond being shot because he's out of place. Thus, XXX is initiated because he's more hip. The woman plays a large part in saving the day which is different. I don't mind action movies but I wish there weren't so many.  Does Hollywood know we're not completely mindless?Bottom line it ain't deep or dramatic. If you like action or seeing block head Vin mack it, you might like this...if that is all you're looking for.  "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal kick boxed into old age home","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If James Bond were 20 years younger he'd be Xander Cage (Vin Diesel), the tattooed spy of XXX. From its opening moments this movie is in hyper-drive. The ultra-hip Cage is an extreme sports athlete with a website that broadcasts his stunts. When we first meet him he steals a car belonging to a Senator who wants to ban video games and rap music, two of Cage's passions. But he doesn't just steal it. He takes the car, manages to out manoeuvre dozens of police cars in a wild chase, and destroy the Senator's corvette by driving it off a bridge and parachuting to safety. It's just one of many crazy stunts packaged in XXX. There's a daring escape from a restaurant, a spectacular snowboarding through an avalanche scene, and some motorcycle work that would make Evel Kenievel green with envy. Oh, there's also a story&#133; something about a ring of terrorists in Prague who are messing around with chemical weapons&#133; but really, who cares, did you come see this for the plot? No you come to see the pumped-up cool guy Vin Diesel kick butt and do things that aren't humanly possible, yet seem so effortless when he does them. He's a great action star &#150; smarter than Stallone, younger than Schwarzenegger and has even less hair than Bruce Willis. His appeal transcends his biceps, as he also appears to have a brain in his head. Throw in a large dollop of charisma on top of that and look out Steven Seagal, you're about to be kick boxed into the old age home. XXX is big stupid fun &#150; things blow up, wisecracks are flying left and right, and there are some very cool gadgets.     "},{"Title":"What a movie","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw this movie all I could think of was MTV. I think it will be known as the longest music videos known to man. Where did the good movies go? I would NEVER pay to see a movie like this again. I am sorry to say that I did pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Right guy, Wrong movie","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is an okay entertaining movie, the special effects are AWESOME!!! But Vin did a lot better in Pitch Black which gave him credence as an actor.  XXX detracts from his acting and throws him in theALL BRAWNS & NO BRAINS category, (think Sly,Arnie & Jean).  Nuff Respect Vin; You can do better than this, you got more class!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The title XXX originally turned me off. Then a trailer slipped by and I glanced at it. I rented it and it's pretty good. Lots of action and non-graphic violence, meaning no cutting off human parts and not too much blood spurting about. Good start keeps interest. Good plot and subplots keep this moving and guessing. Some effects are stupid and some unrealistic, but they are rare. If you can overlook that then it's okay. Lots of Techno music roar, rarr, arrr, arrr,... garbled roars that cannot be understood so it's just noise but it doesn't overwhelm the dialog or action. Suspenseful moments heighten enjoyment of the film. Few choices on the ending but I managed to correctly figure it out. Athletics put to use in action scenes. Ignoring the CGI, the stunt people did a fantastic job because some of those stunts *had* to have been made onsite using real people and props. A lot of technology implied but little was used. Contained obligatory explosions. The red Corvette exploding was unessary. Nice movie all around. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of 2002....","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you like to hear really bad lines from really bad actors, with really bad plot and writing this the film for you. I saw this film the morning of one of my worst-ever hangovers. The kind of hangover when it hurts to move. My friend watched the first 20 minutes with me there suffering and agreed that it was bad, but since he had invested the first 20 minutes insisted on watching the rest. I was trapped, and had to have something to focus on to suppress the pain, and I watched the entire pile of dung. Strangely enough we both laughed out loud like we were watching a farley bros movie. The lines are so bad its funny.The most discouraging part of this film is the amount of money it made. That will only encourage Studios to give the Egocentric Vin more money, when will the madness stop. "},{"Title":"I don't know where to begin","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not in the target audience for this movie. Then again,this movie seems to have been made for people who find pornography too subtle. XXX is offensively moronic,featuring a repellent main character whom I was praying would get killed every time he was in danger. At one point,he mocks an opera; if he knew that opera is full of death and mayhem,he'd shut up. This movie tried to dethrone the James Bond films and failed miserably. It's pathetic in every possible way. This isn't cinema, it's an attempt to please a focus group. It's difficult to expound upon just how much contempt I have for XXX. In fact,I'd run out of room. "},{"Title":"A little bland, but better than I expected.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first saw the commercials for XXX, I was thinking, Oh, great, another stupid teen flick.  When I first saw it, I wasn't too far off.  However, I expected it to be totally stupid, and to act way too cool for itself.  It actually wasn't as bad as I thought.  It isn't something I would have seen in theaters (I actually skipped the chance), but it's also something I wouldn't mind seeing again.Xander Cage is a party animal with some ugly tattoos and an obsession with rebelling against the government.  His resourcefulness is recruited by the CIA (or one of those many, many U.S. secret organizations) and is forced to pass several tests.  One of the tests isn't bad, but the second is so far from reality that it's almost funny.  Triple X does so many stunts in the Colombian field that it's not only supernatural, but disgustingly unnecessary.One major downfall of this movie is the music.  I forgot who composed the original score, but that's not the bad part.  The bad part is the music from popular songwriters that are shoved into the movie.  Half of them don't even fit, and I'd like to mention that all of them are pretty stupid.  I've never been a fan of rock or metal, since recently it's been so uncultured and just plain nasty.  I guess it fits the movie amazingly well...Anyway, there are some good scenes and some bad scenes.  The climax actually isn't so far out.  It seems to be pretty realistic, if you want to call having a car with every James Bond equipment slapped into it realistic.  One bad seen involves a prostitute, which isn't necessary in a movie.  But this movie is supposed to appeal to teenage men, so I suppose it's... er, appropriate?  Yeah, right.All in all, I found XXX to be a little better than I imagined.  However, it's not MUCH better, it's only a little.  Some of the action is good, and some is totally ridiculous.  Don't watch this movie unless you're either sick, staying at home, and don't have anything better to do (like I did) or you're into this kind of near-mindless action. "}{"Title":"eXXXcellent drivel","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Uncuff me so I can beat the s**t out of youThat line says alot about out supposed hero; I kept hoping that somebody would take Mr. XXX outside and beat him like a circus monkey for acting like such a tatooed f***wit. Have another creatine shake. Sympathy for the bad guy exceeds because there is at least some acting ability there. We're talking about quasi-B movie status here people, and that's what made it so enjoyable.PS. the makeout scenes grossed me out too.   "},{"Title":"At least you're SUPPOSED to laugh at Austin Powers!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can only plead with the script writers for XXX not to try and remake Monty Python and The Holy Grail and cast Vin Diesel as Gallahad or King Arthur.  They botched this Bond rip-off so bad I can only imagine what they'd do to the aforementioned comedy classic.  Basically, a bunch of drunk & stoned twenty-somethings decided to make a younger, hipper Bond movie and apparently wrote the script on the inside of a greasy pizza box.  This film has no idea where it's going from ground zero.  Vin Diesel essentially copies every Bond move, except on a Generation XXX scale (replace the skis with snowboards, the Aston-Martin with a '67(?) GTO--that apparently changes colour from black to blue to purple to burgundy (BRUTAL CONTINUITY!!)--and the hot sexy Monte Carlo babe with a poorly accented Euro-Goth).  I can't believe IMDB voters have actually settled on a 6 for this movie...or that someone who has gained the respect of Hollywood as a decent actor (Samuel L. Jackson) would lent himself to this tripe.  Vin Diesel tried too hard to upstage his success in the Fast & The Furious by actually pretending to act in this movie...and it failed miserably.  F&F worked because he played the cool, strong silent type...a much better role than a secret agent who's witty & intelligent quips come off more like a chimpanzee attempting Hamlet.  Save yourself the rental charge on this one and rent a classic, real James Bond movie...or watch the Fast & The Furious over again...or simply watch Austin Powers where at least when you double over laughing you know that you were supposed to be doing so.  A 4 on my scale only for the explosions and the GTO (I'm a muscle car fan and loved the '70 Charger in F&F).  Take out the GTO in this one and we're looking at a 2. "},{"Title":"Things blowed up real good.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX was a loud stupid movie.  Some of the stunts were fun but ridiculously over the top.  The movie consists of lots of people shot with machine guns, flaming blasts and babes dancing.  As is typical for this type of movie the gadgets are used once and forgotten.  If they wanted to know what was going on in the castle why not use the miraculous,(and totally unbelievable), binoculars to see right through the walls and watch the goings on, with sound.  Those binoculars alone would have solved most of the problems in the movie.  Maybe the batteries ran down. Vin Diesel plays a good action hero but needs a script with a bit more substance.  The lead babe, Asia Argento, played a morose, complaining, skinny chick.  She needs 10 pounds and a good night's sleep.  I fail to see her appeal.  Miss it. "},{"Title":"American Punk Action that's a thrill a minute and worth every second","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is pure entertainment. It doesn't aim to go deep, it's here for escapism and pure adrenalin. As an action film fan, I was a little dubious about watching it but came out feeling exhilerated. It's a simple (James Bond-type) story - terrorists wanting to wipe out authority given an American boost of energy and stunts. Vin Diesel is excellent and charismatic as the don't-give-a-s**t criminal Xander picked for secret service who lives his life purely for thrills caught on camera for his underground website. He shoots off one-liners easily and excells in the action sequences, making Xander more than one dimensional and engaging. Asia Argento is surprisingly kick-ass as the token babe, matching Xander physically and verbally. I really enjoyed this film because I love deep dark films and XXX is a welcome break that left me breathless. I know a lot of people didn't like it and I can understand that. Personally, I was not disappointed except for the under-use of Samuel L Jackson as Xander's superior Gibbons.  "},{"Title":"Base Action thrills","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you want substance...of any kind...rent something else.  Even Bond flicks have some conflict.  The plot between Vin and the rest of the group is weak.  I was all over the idea that an X gamer, no fear guy would make a great secret agent.  Here's the problem.  Ever watch the X games?  Those guys don't look like Vin Diesel.  Picture Vin on a BMX doing tricks.OK, now stop laughing.  Don't get me wrong, the movie has what you expect it to.  Lot's of explosions and some good dialogue.  Vin does need to work on his comedic timing as his one liners are usually flat.  His tone of voice changes so little you don't get the full effect of the humor.As for the stunts there were a few issues.  They were set up as great and conceivably they could be.  The Avalanche shoot was a great idea, but it wasn't believeable enough.  I don't expect to believe it but I expect to be convinced it doesn't matter that it couldn't happen.  When the snow is 2 feet from Vin and he just started?  Well, that doesn't work.  Had the avalanche closed in on him ever so slowly there would have been more suspense.There were two majorly glaring weaknesses.  1) Am I supposed to believe that Vin cares about anyone?  Let alone people he just met?  A little character development would have been good here (maybe a friend stuck in jail while he serves God and Country)  and 2) the death rocket that gets launched.  My son has made more threatening looking things with his tinker toys!All in all, if you want explosions, it ain't bad.  It tries to be Bond...suave, subtle and confident.  But it needs to be hard core, edgey and full of obvious attitude.  This needs an R rating.  The real X game and thrill junkies are R people themselves.  Don't downgrade them for the sake of the folks out there with no adrenal glands.  Make a mad rush movie about mad people with balls the size of Cleveland.  That would work better.  And hide the plot and character weaknesses. "},{"Title":"Not Quite","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Star Vin Diesel and director Rob Cohen reunite to update the spy genre but the vehicle they've chosen is somewhat inferior to their previous joint effort, the audacious speed-jockey opera `The Fast And The Furious'. While not a complete washout, `XXX' seems determined to shoehorn the extreme sports action into the creaky, cliché-driven 007-retread of a plot instead of liberating it and while there are plenty of dazzling stunts and effects they seem unwisely strung together in a desperate attempt to deflect the many shortcomings in Rich Wilkes' script. Cohen clearly has a talent for colorful visuals and kinetic editing (three editors worked on the project) and he's making a case for becoming the preeminent action specialist working today but it's a halfhearted bid--his lack of interest in providing more content to give the razzle-dazzle some emotional weight indicates an inability to climb to the A-list of his genre's directors. Diesel disappoints this time as well; his heart doesn't seem to be in the project and though his silky bass-baritone delivers his bad jokes with ease he seems more focused on trying to develop a brand name than sticking to the matter at hand.  "},{"Title":"No competition to James Bond!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I must admit, I am a dedicated James Bond fan, so when the movie was announced to be far better than Bond I was suspicious and that was the only reason to watch the movie. The movie had very nice action sequences, most often labeled as extreme sports. But I have seen all of them in one or another Bond movie - some in movies made 20 years earlier. And for the photography of skiing scenes - there definitely is no better way to do these than to put Willy Bogner backwards on skis! The movie had all to much resemblance to key elements of the Bond movie The spy who loved me - even the other leading character beside Bond was named Triple X (XXX). The beginning of the movie suggests that the character played by Vin Diesel would make a better spy than a James Bond character, mainly because it fits better in a Rammstein environment. If all the difference is exchanging a tuxedo with lots of tattoos and a rather selfish attitude, I rather prefer the British gentleman with a forty year career! In comparison to the twentieth (official) Bond movie Die another day I must say that I liked Miranda Frost a lot better than this girl in XXX. And of course the Bond story again was very much larger than life, while XXX always tried to remain somewhat believable. So in the end XXX might be an nice action movie, but it is definitely no competition to James Bond! "},{"Title":"Decent but....well...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Decent movie... Just another movie out there, not bad nor good. But one thing just bugged the crap out of me. The special effects. In the year 2002 you better not do the computer generated scenes like they have done in xXx. If you do, and drop back to 1987 level, the image of this movie that will remain is the lousy effects. Nice try, but sorry guys - it sucks. Why overdo it when you can't handle it? Settle for less, and i'm sure quite a few more positive comments would appear here. The effects and the overdone everythings ,is what brings this movie down to a level that these actors do not deserve. Go Diesel - Go Diesel! "},{"Title":"Interesting Glitch","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found it interesting that you can see one of the film crew in the end of scene 16, beginnging of Scene 17 on the DVD. If you look in the window at the reflections from outside, there is a man in a red jacket, with a blue baseball hat on and a headset. It is so clear, I can't believe the editors didn't catch it. "},{"Title":"Loud, booming, in your face, but the stunts sell.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel's star vehicle has inevitably arrived. Thankfully, the movie plays well as a loud, dark, dirtier version of Bond and every other action movie you can think of. The stunts, though some look ridiculously over blown, are genuinely extreme and sure to catch a chord with a younger audience. Too bad the actual movie fails to capture that extremeness.Xander Cage is a renegade vigilante that the government finds of some use in helping stop a terrorist group.Sadly enough, the movie is too stupid for its own good. Vin Diesel has moments where his usual tough guy attitude work, don't get me wrong, but in between the stunts and being wooed by it, I was bored out of my skull. XXX should have stressed the gadgets, the stunts ... show more of our hero's persona through that and sell it with conviction. And please, get a villain we have not seen before. XXX has the stunts and that is unfortunately it. "}{"Title":"Bond is the good one, XXX is the bad one...","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Everyone is talking about this movie. I thought, &#145;Maybe it isn't bad'.In the beginning, it seemed to be a movie with a lot of action. But there was still a story. That is the thing that disappeared after 30 minutes. That was that, no plot, no story.  I only liked Samuel L. Jackson's performance, the part of August Gibbons, was well chosen, but I would have rather liked that he had played in a movie better than this one. He is always good (Jackie Brown, Unbreakable) but this time he did it completely wrong. He has so much talent, and he even decides to make another XXX movie, which is pitiful!. We have different tastes, I guess. Vin Diesel, I guess he did quite well (according to circumstances) but he would better do something different. I would love to see him in &#145;Guys and Dolls' along with Nicole Kidman. I guess that this isn't something for me and I guess a lot of people agree with what I am saying, because a lot of viewers returned home without joy or something to think about. I wonder why I didn't choose to see any other movie in the teather?'Well I'll have better luck next time...  The only good thing about this film are the visual effectsMaybe they have to try to find a good story, before they think they can imitate James Bond. Rating 5/10 or *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"It's got nothing on Bond","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel. I thought he was great in BOILER ROOM. I remember thinking, he's gonna be a huge star, a great actor. But then he goes on and does THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS and this film, XXX. Neither films which really required acting talent on its part. So we're presented with XXX, a supposed new breed of secret agent. Is it as good as the JAMES BOND franchise? Of course not. Is the story interesting? Not really. Are there plenty of action scenes to keep one entertained? Well, yeah. But aren't there a hundred movies just like it? Of course.This film is pretty bad, even for an action film. It has absolutely nothing on James Bond. Quite honestly, it's one of the worst Bond knock-offs created. Now I like Vin Diesel and think he can still do good movies, but with movies like this and the inevitable XXX sequel... dear no. Go see any JAMES BOND movie or THE BOURNE IDENTITY rather than this recycled garbage.SCORE 5 out of 10 (average) "},{"Title":"Good try, start again.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A new breed of secret agent.  On behalf of who, Jackass?  Johnny Knoxville as Deputy Director J.K.  America's equivalent to James Bond and his adventures stem from Our Man Flint, through to True Lies slightly, and now onwards to xXx.  I like the title, quite secret agent and the main character's codename, Vin Diesel looks the part, his somewhat becoming-quite-frequent introduction into the agency via a reputation for being his own man, ready to run risks for the sake of adrenaline frenzy.  In other words, it's someone not assigned to the agency roster yet good enough for the job.  Must be plenty of them on the U.S. streets.***SPOILERS***  But then there's the rest of the movie.  The henchman of the baddie remembers seeing footage of this new agent's antics of extreme sports, silly when the agent is keeping a low profile.  To me, he is trusted too quickly after exposing an undercover cop.  Corny one-liners that weren't delivered as slick as required, the action isn't as fast-paced as Bond, though I doubt a comparison was intended by the filmmakers.  The script should have included more dialogue on the mission and gathering intelligence rather than making Vin look and sound good.  And the gadgets man, is a NSA agent?  More like a NBA agent.  Perhaps more brains than astuteness.  He didn't put me at ease with his inclusion, his humour didn't suit the film and he came over as blundering.  Hardly NSA, though I may be wrong.***SPOILERS***  Then at the end, such a clique, chasing a bomb with seconds remaining, makes it at the end, looks dead and buried under water, and out of a crowd of onlookers, the only person to spot him emerging is the love interest Yelena.  She sees him, even though she is on one side of the bridge looking over and the agent emerges on the other side down below, out of sight.  The filmmakers seemed to have wanted to put an end to it quickly and rushed it in time for the cinemas.  Good title, good choice of actor, storyline should have been better, more action scenes and gadgets, less humour and wise-cracking, more stealth movements and inteligence gathering.  Hope its like that in xXx2.   xXx gets 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My Email Says It All...","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One Word that would sum up my feelings For XXX???GUTTED.I monitored the progress this film from pretty much shooting began and from what I was reading and hearing it sounded like it was going to be the ultimate action movie. I was even spreading the good word of XXX for months! I was telling my friends XXX is gonna be one of the films 2003...Oh how I was wrong.I think it all began to go wrong in my view was when I discovered it was going to be a 12A in England, I thought it was going to be a solid 15 or possibly 18. So it wasn't going to be a brutal as I would have liked it to be. I guess it's Vin's commercial success that caused thisWhen I watched it the script was simply awful. Vin Diesel had far too many one liners that did not work, yes, yes I know it's an action flick, it's what you expect. But NO it was an awful script even in ACTION standards.I was just sitting there thinking DamnIf I was to make positives to this film I'd say WELL DONE Rob Cohen Vin Diesel for choosing to do a new project instead of doing FAST AND THE FURIOUS 2 (Leave a good thing ALONE!) and lets be honest Die Another Day didn't do enough to bury this film as a 100% howler of a movie.  "},{"Title":"XXX COPIED FROM JAMES BOND FILM THE SPY WHO LOVED ME (1997)","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I hope you people all realise that there was an agent XXX in the James bond film The Spy who loved me (1977), which like all the Bond films, is far superior than this stupid movie.You can just see the fat old male hollywood producers sitting round a table saying to themselves OK, let's write down a list of every  sport which young people are into, and go from there. Let's see we've got surfing, skateboarding, snowboarding, bmx riding, waterskiing, parachuting. Now all we have to do is put all of them together in the movie...hell, we'll even throw in a line about a sony playstationI am really looking forward to the sequel...because they will have run out of extreme sports to put in, and everyone will see this crap for what it really is...awful patronising crap. They pretend as though they are making fun of James Bond, when really they are just copying him.The real XXX is Anya Amasova from The Spy who Loved Me "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel is the best part of the film!!!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It' s a typical action film. It' s like a film about James Bond. The plot is pretty simple, but the special effects are perfect. Of course what attracts us most is the main character Vin Diesel. Boy , what a hunk!!! ;-)   "},{"Title":"typical action flick...but worth your time","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is an atypical super-hyped action movie not unlike its predecessors. I would liken it to True Lies ('94)in regards to reality (or lack thereof). Vin Diesel fans, special effects addicts, and those who don't mind loads of hollywood-only gadgetry will agree that xXx is worth your time, but expect of it what it is! Simply put, its Fast and the Furious meets the best of James Bond! "},{"Title":"mass destruction","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lately many movies have this object as their action. Still, one after the other is worst and worst. All I liked from this movie were the girls half naked and of course, the soundtrack of it. The acting is weak, some people should stick to extreme sports, but they shouldn't make that subject for movies. It is boring and strange. "},{"Title":"What was he thinking?","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What on earth made Samuel L. Jackson get involved in this piece of junk? Was he short on funds? Did he lose a bet? For a man who made movies like Unbreakable, Pulp Fiction, The Negotiator, and A Time to Kill it is a disgrace to have his name associated with this so called film. I never seen a movie try so many one liners that just don't go anywhere. What a waste. "},{"Title":"Exactly what you'd expect","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, before you see this movie, you have to concede two things. Firstly, that the acting won't be all that great. It's like, alright, Vin Diesel is this big buff dude, and some of the cast members are strictly eye candy with little to no acting talent. However, if you're looking for a top-notch acting job, I suggest you stay away from action films. The second concession you'll have to make is that this movie isn't what you may call cerebral entertainment. By this I mean, you're only going to enjoy it if you go into it knowing what to expect.What to expect is this A fast-paced thrill ride with one explosion and stunt after another. Sure, there's a plot, but I've seen this movie three times, and all that sticks in my head are the explosions. And that's the way it should be. Vin Diesel isn't intended to be the next sophisticated Hollywood thought-provoking artist. He's a Sylvester Stallone or Arnold Schwartzenegger for the new generation. And he does well in these types of roles.If you go into this movie, expecting an art-house film, you'll be disappointed. If you go into it expecting a more modernized, American James Bond type film, with less suaveness and more sweat, you may come home happy.Personally, I liked this movie. It did in spades exactly what it set out to do Be an hour and a half of mindless, pointless eye-candy entertainment, which you can stare at for awhile. Then, you can come out of the theater and go OH wow! Did you see that one explosion? That was the bomb! Why do people knock movies that aren't intelligent enough? Not everything is about thinking, and this is one of them. Sit back and enjoy the car chases, explosions, and free falls, because life's too short to analyze everything. I give this movie four stars out of five for being a cinematic, thrill-ride eye candy production that does its job well. "}{"Title":"A Celebration of Stupidity","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie, in my opinion, is among the most thoughtless crap to have been filmed.  It's full of stupid characters that do and say stupid things and has really stupid action sequences.  Vin Disel plays Xander Cage, a prankster who videotapes his illegal stunts and sells them on the internet. Eventually he gets in trouble and is recruited by the NSA.  Everything takes place in a fantasy world where police are powerless, secret agents are flaunted celebrities, and the only organization that has any power at all is the ultra high-tech and ultra high-budget American NSA.HERE'S WHY THIS FILM IS STUPID BEYOND BELIEF (slight spoilers within)The stunt that eventually gets Xander in trouble is the grand theft of a senator's car which he later drives off a bridge and bails from with a parachute.  Not only does this numbskull videotape this flick from various cameras with intent to publish, but he also throws a giant party at his pad to celebrate his greatness!  That's when the feds come in and bust him.The incredibly idiotic antagonists own a giant mansion in Prague where they throw large parties and devise plans on how to overthrow the governments worldwide.  They call themselves Anarchy99 because in 1999, while serving in the Russian Army, they decided that they are fed up with laws and government and must put a stop to them all.  And then somehow, they got richer than Bill Gates, got international visas, and formed a small army.  All since 1999.Xander's sexy sidekick Yelena turns out to be an undercover KGB agent, a former KGB agent in fact because she has not heard from them in a long time and is now on her own.  It's funny how an agency that hasn't existed since October 1991 is able to send a very young agent over to Prague to investigate a terrorist group that was formed in 1999.A lot of things explode for no reason at all, a car hitting the ground, a car after being shot at, a barn being hit by bullets.  Missile explosions have no shockwaves, they look like burst from a leaking lighter.<end of spoilers>The movie is of poor quality and is made with very little scientific and historical research.  It completely ignores common sense and realism and has crude product placement.  Basically it's another Cohen/Diesel merciless wallet-draining neuron killer.BOTTOMLINE I am truly ashamed that I've seen it, so spare yourself from my suffering. "},{"Title":"what's wrong with you people?","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  i don't have any idea why so many people keep putting this movie down, i thought that it was one of the best movies i've ever seen and i can't wait for XXX2 to come out.  but for all you people that judge movies based on their special fx than that's too bad cuz you're gonna miss out on a lot... Ebert & Roeper gave the movie 2 thumbs up so it must be good, atleast give it a chance! "},{"Title":"too many impossibilities","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Makers of this movie made real mixture of places seen in the film. It looks, that there are Alps 10 minutes from Prague. But this is not the real problem of this film. I think, that they wanted to made a Bond-like movie, but forgot, that normal man can't stay so many impossibilities.  "},{"Title":"More Vin","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay so I am a huge fan of Vin, and even if this film was total crap I still would love it. But I am happy to report that it is not rubbish. Sure it isn't the most thought-provoking of films, but it doesn't set out to be.It is an action flick, and does exactly what it says on the tin. I was entertained, and even impressed by the special effects.Dialogue and plot not so good. Even the subtitled dialogue was dire Catch him quick, kill him slow Yuck.But For a pop-corn movie it did the job. "},{"Title":"E-V-E","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  ok, lets get this part out of the way...this movie is bad.  it's just bad. i'll give it a 1 out of 10.  it doesn't quite make it into the negatives. the negative scale is reserved for movies like Nowhere and City of Angels.i went to see this under the impression that Eve was going to play a mildly significant role.  in some interview she noted that she would be X's best friend.  in fact she was a glorified extra.  having said that, lets get to the fun part.what should have happened in this movie was this...within the first five minutes Eve should have killed Vin Diesel (because she's an undercover agent and it has been proven that X is a risk to himself and all other people). she could have pushed him out a window.  possibly knifed him in the bathroom.  or just shot him.  it doesn't matter, just get him out of the way.  then she could do what she does best...kick ass.  we would then follow her on her missions to ensure world peace.  her next assignment would be to assisinate the leader of some evil group (of course bent on ruling the world) based in Luxembourg.  i can't help but be fascinated with a country that's as big as my kitchen table.  she'd ride her motorcycle a lot.  on her down time she would naturally rap.  to help her in the final showdown between her and the evil Luxembourgeans DMX and The Lox would show up. the world would be safe again thanks to Eve.  isn't that a lot cooler?  i think so anyway.moral of the story is Vin Diesel is bad, very bad.  Eve is very good. RUFF RYDERS! "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was unable to find a plot in this film, did anyone else notice it? Also, what on earth was the Opera scene all about? I found myself laughing throughout the film, principally from intellectual snobbery - if you want to feel intelligent, go and watch this film. "},{"Title":"Save your Money","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is the worst movie i´ve seen for a very long time. Vin Diesel delievers very poor acting and there is no real story( very poor one liners, tons of movie mistakes).If you want entertainment rent the first blood trilogy or for the diesel fans Pitch Black or Fast and the furious.  Save your money for the new Bond. If you watch this in a movie theatre, don´s say i didn´t warn you. 2-3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Well.. hehe","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Alright.The movie itself was bad. Very bad james-bond style copy.But. It was pretty damn entertaining. It was somehow a bit funny, there were couple good jokes, and if you like james bond movies, you'll probably like this one too. There is nothing realistic in this movie, but I guess it's not even supposed to be. Entertaining, but don't expect a good movie. This is a good popcorn movie. I will watch XXX 2 too, I expect it to be even worse and that's why I'm going to watch it. D "},{"Title":"Best agent movie, Combined from James Bond 007 and Mission Impossible","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good and excellent movie. The story is great, because X is someone whom not afraid to die, do something very usual, and clever. He is agent who combined from 007 weapon and car, and good action like Mission Impossible.Triple x is the best movie that I ever saw in 2002. This story is like Hollywood story which lost the sense and already come back with TRIPLE X.The love story is short, that's what I really like. And the action is very-very GOOD. Beside the woman is not so easy to having sex with him, and the stripper with the snake is interesting to watch "},{"Title":"Best agent movie, Combined from James Bond 007 and Mission Impossible","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good and excellent movie. The story is great, because X is someone whom not afraid to die, do something very usual, and clever. He is agent who combined from 007 weapon and car, and good action like Mission Impossible.Triple x is the best movie that I ever saw in 2002. This story is like Hollywood story which lost the sense and already come back with TRIPLE X.The love story is short, that's what I really like. And the action is very-very GOOD. Beside the woman is not so easy to having sex with him, and the stripper with the snake is interesting to watch "}{"Title":"Best agent movie, Combined from James Bond 007 and Mission Impossible","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good and excellent movie. The story is great, because X is someone whom not afraid to die, do something very usual, and clever. He is agent who combined from 007 weapon and car, and good action like Mission Impossible.Triple x is the best movie that I ever saw in 2002. This story is like Hollywood story which lost the sense and already come back with TRIPLE X.The love story is short, that's what I really like. And the action is very-very GOOD. Beside the woman is not so easy to having sex with him, and the stripper with the snake is interesting to watch "},{"Title":"the American new wave, xXx is fun!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is awesome. So is Austin Powers Goldmember. I feel like there are a couple of new American big productions that actually are very awesome.I like to believe Hollywood is crap, and I hate the idea people all around the world spend their money in the cinemas to watch Hollywood crap, though this is one exception.The xXx guy racing around on a motorcycle jumping around doing stunts in a Columbian drug base is so amazingly fun, there are explosions all over the place, slow motion.Samuel L. Jackson is so totally fun, he is a black man with a scar on his face, hahaha! And the guards on the mountain saying - Life is s**t, - What can we do about itThis Hollywood movie really shows a few very AWESOME shots of the city of Prague in Tchequia. Stunts, Tcheque police cars on fire and such..The average age of computer gamers is 23 years old. Meaning this movie making lots of references to video-games, this is not a teen-agers movie. "},{"Title":"ok but nothing special","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a film full of action ,stunts and non stop explosions. it hasn't a great script and in some parts i felt it could was weak in story and in acting. Vin diesel was not too bad in the leading role but i would be pushing it if i said he was anything special. samuel l jackson dosen't really do much in the film except giving out a few orders. overall XXX is an ok film but i cant say i would ever really want to see it again but if you want 2 hours of explosions and Vin Diesal then this is the film to see but if you want a good film go see red dragon.XXX deserves a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Maybe a little late..but...seen it LOVED it! =)","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Maybe it's me, but I really don't see what xXx has to do with the James Bond movies! And...why compare it to other movies?! If you do that, it's kind of logical that you don't enjoy a movie..But I actually loved that movie! Okay, Vin Diesels acting has to be worked on. That...tone in his voice..you can hear that he has memorised the lines...but his looks make that up right? =) The stunts were absolutely fantastic! although...the thing...with the snow and stuff...not so realistic. Come to think about it..there were a lot of defaults..But still..have you seen that body?!!! "},{"Title":"Great action movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Bow to the next best action man besides 007 himself....Vin Diesel.  I loved this movie, especially the great 1967 Pontiac GTO; a great piece of Detroit iron.  This movie has A LOT of action, you get your moneys worth at this movie.  I dont want to give away the movie to the unlucky people who have not seen this movie yet but it is basically a lot like a new age 007 movie. Xander xXx Cage (Vin Diesel) play the leading role.  He is a rebellious risk taker who loves to do INSANE stunts.  After jumping a Vette off a bring and parachuting into the river below he returns to his hideout where the police raid the party and use a tranquilizer on xXx who says It was only a Corvette before the tranquilizer finally kicks in.  You will have to see the movie to find out what happens 'cuz at this point it gets interesting. "},{"Title":"zZz","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't know what to except from this movie, except for a lot of fun. Not only did I waste $10, but I wasted about two hours of my life (just about that time).  Vin Diesel is an actor but he never acts--he kicks, he punches people, he snowboards, but he doesn't act. Asia Argentino gives the best performance (I'm suprised, Samuel L. Jackson was dull too).  On top of that, the movie doesn't have a story. All it is is stunts (some of which Diesel DIDN'T DO), and sex.  For some reason, everyone likes and is paying thier money to see it, and they say I'll see it again! See it 0 times.  "},{"Title":"gets boring","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  this film does have what it says .  a lot of action and over the top stunts. but it  is now boring  to watch this kind of action now a days .vin diesel was funny in it . but watching him on the motor bike going through the barbed wire at the columbian  shoot out nearly put me to sleep. there was only one part of the film i was impressed with . the bit were  vin or stunt double  goes over the exploding barn . if that was done 4 real completley then the guy had cuts  it was some crazy and well done jump  oh and asia argento is gorgeous .this kind of action was great in the 80s - early 90s . not now  . back then it was cheesie and  the were not trying to be perfect at the stunts .all my fav action films are from the 80s-90s .  RAMBO 2-3 / ALIENS  and a few others .  and now a days cgi animation films r kicking the ass of action films . and jackie chan is the only one worth watching 4 action .oh and all this  crap about the 1st half an hour of xxx  being worth the admission ticket is a lot of crap.    "},{"Title":"oh my god...","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't even know how to vote for this movie 10 for the courage or 1 for the actual result? The courage would have been for producing such a crap and being even proud of it. I went to watch an action movie to relax a bit and the only cool thing I saw were the nice stunts (a bit overdone, but still cool); the rest of the movie was a little bit less than disgusting poor acting, poor dialogues (DIALOGUES???), a plot not even good for a retard... and the usual awful habit of all american movies, since few years, to explain EVERYTHING that's going on, just to make sure that some moron could get some certainty. Deprecable. Ah the other pretty nice thing in the movie (I voted 2 instead of 1 in the end) was the extremely cool beginning with Rammstein... ;) It competes with SpiderMan for the worst movie of the millenium! "},{"Title":"James Bond for the millenium","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film was,for me, an update on an old formula. James Bond was good in his heyday but for me Xander Cage was a more amusing, up-to-date and entertaining. Stunts, as in Bond films, totally over the top but it is escapist entertainment afterall.Just so long as Vin doesn't take himself too seriously the next two films should be worth waiting for...Best described as chewing gum for the brain but sometimes that just fits the bill after a stressful week at work! "},{"Title":"It is impossible not to compare this with 007","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If there had never been any 007 flicks then this would be an exciting new genre. This however is patently not the case. I would salute the replacement of a hero we can better identify with  for the upper-class Oxbridge graduate with the oh-so-perfect background. But for future films I'd like to see them breakaway from the unrealistic world takeover plots. Smaller problems are more believable and hence more exciting. "}{"Title":"Could have been worse, could have been better","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to say, the first part of XXX is actually good.  When I walked in to the theater I expected a crapfest.  I am pleased to say I am somewhat wrong. The first 45 minutes of the this movie, is a great action movie.  The characters are enjoyable, in everyone's gen x bond kind of way.  The plot is silly, but hey this is a spy movie, most are.  There are some great one liners, and it is turning out to be a good movie.....then it happened.  I actually went back to see the movie again to find out exactly where it all fell apart.  After you hear the line These guys are cool, but they ain't that cool leave, just stop watching, you have to trust me on this one. At that point the movie takes a serious nose dive, the acting goes to hell, the plot gets stupider, and the characters become crap.  Oh yeah, then there is skate boarding with SILVER WARE.  Yeah, just watch the first 45 minutes and then leave, you will be must better off for it. "},{"Title":"Give kudos and criticism","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a movie that starts out with a bang and ends with a bang(on slightly different topics). I liked Vin Diesel in TFATF because he plays a good tough guy who doesn't take crap from anyone. This part fit him perfectly because it is the same type of part. I liked the beginning and the first stunt was very well done. However, from there on the same stuff happens again and again as he must save the world or himself with death-defying stunts. (Samuel L. Jackson does a good job as an NSA agent who helps XXX). But who can believe the avalanche scene really happened? Who in their right minds would do something that idiotic? No one that's who!!!!! Also director Rob Cohen takes this movie to a new level of sexuality. This is not a good thing!!!!! I give it a 5/10.  "},{"Title":"very average","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is very unimpressive. It wasn't terrible, The stunts were at first fun to watch, but after a while I felt they just delayed the movie.The plot was ok, and the acting was decent, I just thought that after a while the movie really seemed to drag. I reccomend this movie to any fan of extreme sports and any girl who has fallen in love with Vin Diesel. (It seems like a lot of girls have.) "},{"Title":"A fun and relentless giftbox of I don't think so!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  So you've seen Rob Cohen's Fast and the Furious last year, and you thought, Man, that Vin Diesel with that kinda action...I need more!  Well, you know what they say - Be careful what you wish for!!  Here it is Crude, Rude, Loud, Action-packed and (literally) Unbelievable.  When watching this film, I was reminded of another little film I had seen a couple of years ago called MissionImpossible 2.  In both films there are plenty of opportunities for eye candy and you truly exercise that talent for suspension of disbelief - the stunts look great(you might even gasp!), but they CANNOT be done! All things considered, I enjoyed the film for what it was, not for what it could have been.  This film definitely helps Vin with that breakout action role, which poses him shoulder to shoulder with the likes of Bruce Willis. And lastly, a big Welcome to Hollywood has to go to Asia Argento - we like you already!  "},{"Title":"It Deserves 3 X's All Over It.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" XXX (2002) Dir Rob Cohen / Cast Vin Diesel, Asia Argento, Samuel L. Jackson, Eve, Danny Trejo Vin Diesel has three X's tattooed on the back of his neck as if he could actually read them back there. He is a daredevil stunt person of impressionable ability who commits illegal acts. Once caught he is visited by Samuel L. Jackson who is scarred on one side of his face. Why this information is needed is beyond me but Diesel is sent on a mission in return for a pardon. Lame plot consists of numerous action scenes to place violence throughout as much of the film as possible. Directed by Rob Cohen who previously directed Diesel in the equally stupid The Fast and the Furious. The production is fine but that is about as far as compliments go with this sh*t. Diesel is typecast as this implausible hero who makes narrow escapes and kicks the crap out of everyone. Asia Argento is lifeless as his potential sidekick and romantic interest who can also kick the crap out of everyone. Jackson is perhaps the most laughable appearing with that stupid scar on his face. Eve also makes an appearance although it can be assured that it will likely do nothing to further her acting career. Action and violence at its most over the top render this one of the stupidest action films of the year. The only purpose this film serves is to reveal that filmmakers have too much money to waste. It should be met with a big black X. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"stupider version of a Bond movie but Vin Diesel has his charms","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) is an adrenaline junkie and exhibitionist with an attitude. He causes chaos for the sake of his underground agenda. NSA Agent Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) arrests Xander and recruits him to infiltrate the organization of gangster Yorgi (Marton Csokas). He has the background and the attitude to fit in and best of all, he's expendable. Yelena (Asia Argento) is Yorgi's girl assistant. The action is from an inferior Bond movie. The story is convoluted. This is basically paying homage to Bond. At least lots of things blow up. Vin Diesel does have the charisma even if his acting is strictly functional. He shows that he could be a good action hero. He just needs to find the right franchise. This is flashy without the right substance. That seems to be the trademark of director Rob Cohen. There is too much stupidity going on. I don't really like the eurotrash motif. However there are just enough good stuff here to see this as escapist fun. "},{"Title":"get me out of the Xander zone....","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Xander Cage is a thrill seeker who until now has been untouchable by the law. NSA Agent Gibbons forces Cage to cooperate with the government to infiltrate an underground Russian crime ring and avoid going to prison. Betting he can succeed where other conventional spies have failed, Gibbons sends Cage to enter this world of crime undetected, using his natural athletic prowess and a whole lot of attitude. Enlisted for a dangerous covert mission, he must combat a ruthless enemy far beyond the scope of his experience....When this film was first released in 2002, I was blown away by the whole proceedings. The music was good, the clothes were cool, and the set pieces were pretty top too. And it had the added bonus of Jackson doing what he does best.Ten years later, the film just doesn't hold up. The clothes are awful, and the one thing you realise is that Diesel cannot act to save his life, and seeing him spout out turgid one-liners is embarrassing, and I was bought up in the eighties.This chap was supposed to be the next big thing, and after this, the only movies that he can carry are ones beginning with fast and ending in furious.The action scenes are still ample, but I really got fed up quickly at the slow motion and waiting for literally six or seven edits and cuts, before a vehicle landed on the ground following an explosion.I can honestly say that anyone who loved it back then and are in their thirties, go back, see it and wonder why you enjoyed it.It's a real dud, that goes on for too long and relies on beautiful women and pyrotechnics to entertain. "},{"Title":"yYy","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Because he is such a gnarly dude, the Unites States government puts muscular criminal Vin Diesel (as Xander xXx Cage) on the payroll as a secret agent. After passing some tough guy tests administered by superior scar-faced agent Samuel L. Jackson (as Eugene Gibbons), Mr. Diesel is sent to the Czech Republic to befriend, but really fight against anarchistic accented Marton Csokas (as Yorgi), who throws a great party. Secretive girlfriend Asia Argento (as Yelena) is an important distraction. If you like fast cars, bikes and explosions with your dirty, dangerous and tattooed Diesel, this film is for you.**** xXx (8/9/02) Rob Cohen ~ Vin Diesel, Samuel L. Jackson, Asia Argento, Marton Csokas "},{"Title":"Don't watch it if you don't like action!","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Definitely my kind of movie. Im the kind of person who loves action movies with amazing stunts and killer punch lines. There has to be awesome actors, great settings, smooth characters, heavy music and action sequences that don't lose the plot.And guess what! This ticks all the boxes. I know it may not be the most intelligent thing ever, its not a brain teaser, but it's great entertainment and I just love to see a cool guy kick ass. Especially when its Vin Diesel. The movie is about hardcore stunt man Xander Cage being forced to spy for the government to rid him of his prison sentence. He must infiltrate Russian gang Anarchy 99'. My Favourite Movie! "},{"Title":"Average Action Movie","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Vin Diesel is normally very good for action movies. At first when this came out I didn't run out to see it, but as soon as it made it to DVD I rented it. It actually wasn't terrible, but wasn't the best either. It was basically just your average action movie, with some low budget dialog and great action scenes. This movie is really fit for those hardcore action fans out there. I wouldn't call it hardcore action but it was decent at best. The action was very consistent and the dialog wasn't the best, but wasn't terrible as well. So check out this movie if you really have a desire to see it, like Vin Diesel and like a good action movie. "}{"Title":"A generic,average action movie inspired by James Bond that might not please all of us","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Another generic action film in my books,xXx is an average action film that some might enjoy and others might not,it isn't really special or anything so I wouldn't be in a big rush to watch it.Vin Diesel stars as Xander Cage who is a thrill-seeker until a few things happen which result in him doing something different.On to the scene comes Augustus Gibbons(Samuel L.Jackson) who is an NSA agent who gives Xander two choices(a)work for him or (b)go to jail and serve a prison term.The casting was OK but could have better as in a way,Vin Diesel and Samuel L.Jackson carry the movie on their shoulders but Asia Argento and Marton Csokas do an OK job as supporting but the rest of the cast is a bit of a let down.The directing by Rob Cohen was abit average and could have been abit better but there is always next time,isn't there? "},{"Title":"Mediocre action film","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Vin Diesel & Sam L JAckson. i watched this film as this mixture sound like a great recipe. what followed certainly was not great. a mediocre action film with too much action an over the top villain (not played by Allan Rickman for once) and a too unbelievable storyline. an adrenaline junkie with no special training infiltrates one of the worlds most hunted gangs and crushes them single handedly???? no way.This film, while good for action lacks pretty much everything else. a low point in Jacksons career.just scrapes 6/10. "},{"Title":"If you want someone to save the world, make sure it's someone who likes the world as it is.","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Yes, I know that this movie is a little over the top, but it qualifies as one of those guilty pleasures we visit from time to time when we want mindless entertainment. In that sense, it excels.I was just looking for a Danny Trejo fix until Machete comes out and found this and Nightstalker. Trejo was only in this for a short time as the Columbian Army swept in and blew everything up. That's OK, it satisfied me for a while. During that raid, we got to see some of the best stunt work with a vehicle as drivers maneuver motorcycles around exploding buildings. During this stunt, helicopters fire at the motorcycles, a motorcycle jumps an exploding vehicle, a stunt driver on a motorcycle jumps through barbed wire and a stunt man jumps over barn as it explodes behind him. AWESOME! This movie features action sequences and sound work that makes the best Bond movie seem tame. You see a stunt man harpoon a moving boat while in a car traveling parallel to the boat. Using a parachute, the stuntman attaches himself to the moving boat and flies behind it. As a bridge approaches, the stunt man unhooks himself from the parachute harness and slides down into the boat. You also see a stunt man drive a Corvette off a bridge and escapes the inevitable crash by parachuting off the car and gliding to safety.Lots of explosions, shootings, fantastic Bond-type equipment, and a great GTO.So, Vin Diesel will probably not win any awards outside of MTV, Blockbuster, or Teen Choice, but he is fun to watch.And Asia Argento, daughter of the famed Dario Argento, has been thrilling us ever since she burst out of her bra as a topless seventeen-year-old in Trauma (directed by her father). We get a little nip slip here (don't want to upset the teenies), but nothing like her skintastic performance in Scarlet Diva, the movie she wrote, directed, and starred in.I also got a Samuel L. Jackson fix that will hold me until I can catch Black Snake Moan.All-in-all a good night. "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel filling the Sly/Arnold void","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" If the script writers could have gotten away with mere grunts for dialog, they would have done it. This movie took the very testosterone laden approach of action, a hot chick, more action, juvenile dialogue, and more action.Vin Diesel is quickly becoming the Stallonenegger of the 21st century. Even though I don't think he is foreign or has a severe speech impediment, he still is given nothing more than one dimensional characters with monosyllabic lines. Apparently it works because XXX and Fast and Furious both raked in a lot of cash. Still, this extreme action movie wasn't that captivating to me. "},{"Title":"Watchable Bond-Lite","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Vin Diesel is a very watchable actor, with distinctive features, a muscular physique and a voice that feels like he's pouring Jack Daniels into your ears. The fact that he can also portray more complex emotions than Happy and Grumpy makes him one of the most under-rated actors currently working in Hollywood.However, his agent has very poor judgement and for every decent film he's appeared in, there's a clunker that outweighs it. For every Pitch Black there's a The Fast and The Furious, which is a real shame. xXx falls between these extremes, fortunately.In xXx, director Rob Cohen manages to craft a more believable star vehicle for Diesel than the jalopy he rolled out of the garage in 2001. The script may be sub-Bond but it's an inventive and distinctly up-to-date spin on the standard spy movie formula. Cohen makes the most of the humorous elements of the plot and also manages to create some tension as well. His team do good work with the impressive stunts and the use of CGI in them is kept to almost tolerable levels. You can, for example, almost believe it when X is snowboarding ahead of a massive avalanche.Setting the bulk of the action in the Czech Republic is a good move, as the locations are clearly not the back lot of an LA sound stage. The armourer also bought in some Czech-made weapons, a nice realistic touch for all the gun-nuts out there. Unfortunately the armourer also supplied Vin with one of the least convincing prop guns in movie history. X's pistol has a blocky barrel and compensator that looks like it's been hacked off an automatic and glued on to a revolver frame. It also gets a cheap (£19 on eBay) red dot sight AND a laser. That's right, gun fans. 2 red dots to aim with! It's as ugly as it is pointless.Vin Diesel is backed up by a solid supporting cast who all act like they mean it. It's the conviction with which this story is told that lifts it above merely mediocre. That makes me recommend xXx as an OK brain-out popcorn action movie. It even rates 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel as a blue-collar James Bond -- what a hoot!!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  No, I don't consider 'XXX' a good movie, but as a tongue-in-cheek wild action sci-fi fantasy, it worked for me as an entertaining two hours. Vin Diesel (real name Mark Vincent) plays a risk-taking street crook who also happens to be very intelligent and very capable. He is offered a sort of 'Escape Fron New York' type of deal after the opening sequence where he steals a politician's 'Vette and drives it off a bridge, parachuting to safety -- be our spy or go to jail for the rest of your life as a 'three strikes and you're out' offender. Samuel Jackson plays the government man who deals with Diesel. The DVD is very aggressive and impressive.SPOILERS follow, consider quitting reading now!! So the remainder of the movie is Diesel getting dumped in this foreign city, infiltrating the Russian anarchists who are designing a smart device which will spread poisonous gas into the air of large cities, to create chaos. His cover is to purchase 10 rare but 'hot' cars for a total of $1.2Million, including his own old GTO. A nerd outfits his car with a host of James Bond type gadgets. He defuses the machine, he becomes the hero. He gets asylum for the Russian spy girl in California.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic flick!!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was the first time I had seen Vin Diesel in anything, and I have since become a huge fan!  The action meshes with the plot extremely well, and I could watch it daily and not tire of it.  There are twists and turns to the plot that you don't expect, and it makes the movie very delightful.  I enjoy action movies, and this is #1 in my collection.  It includes great effects, great costumes, and great actors!  If you haven't seen it, what are you waiting for? "},{"Title":"Best film of the year!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although this movie has been described as similar to James Bond, it is much more than that.  Vin Diesel is extreme sports athlete Xander Cage, pressed into the service of his country by Agent Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L Jackson).  The movie is a perfect vehicle to allow Vin Diesel to demonstrate his considerable acting talents.  The role plays on his ability to make you truly believe that he is capable of performing the incredible stunts.  He is not afraid of being shown as flawed though, and to allow other characters to be more knowledgeable.  The bad guy, Yorgi, who is the leader of a group of ex Russian soldiers called Anarchy 99, is played by the wonderfully sinister Marton Csokas whose agenda is slightly different from the usual Bond villains.  There is no preamble - the movie goes straight into the action. The rock music soundtrack helps make this movie the best one of the decade so far!  "},{"Title":"Pretty good action flick","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought this would merely be an excuse to show a bunch of stunts and loud music, but it turns out that this is a pretty decent action movie.  And of course, there are plenty of stunts and things being blown up...but isn't that what an action movie is supposed to do?There were some subtleties I liked in the movie - the handwritten manual for that sweet, sweet GTO, XXX forgetting to take the safety off (he is a rookie agent, after all), and so on.  I have a feeling that the writer has watched his share of Bond movies, and you can definitely see the influence, including a great one-liner, Nothing like fresh powder.Don't go into this thinking to see some great acting or a deep storyline, take it for what it is; a summer action blockbuster meant to be pure escapist joy for an hour and a half of your life.  Definitely worth viewing once or twice. "},{"Title":"Take your brain out and enjoy","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked this  movie even though  I didn't need my  brain to enjoy it! "}{"Title":"Pure escapism","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I find it a little ridiculous that people feel the need to dish out bad reviews to this movie. What did you expect? I don't think anyone expected 'XXX' to be intelligent (which it actually is) or original (which it actually is), so really, you're getting MORE than you bargained for when you watch this. Sure, the stunts are ridiculously unrealistic and impossible to pull off by any human being, and yes, Xander is way overconfident in situations that would shatter any man, but that's what makes this film so great. It is so far removed from reality and makes absolutely no apologies for that. Maybe it's because I've been an Ah-nuld fan all my life, but I have a deep appreciation for these kinds of movies. Yes, like everyone else, I like to watch smart films and be challenged, but at the same time, when I've worked an 11 hour day, I just want to come home, relax and forget my life for 2 hours. This is, afterall, the entertainment business. Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage, an underground extreme sports sensation whose illegal activities catch the eye of the American Government. You see, the secret agents aren't so secret anymore and the NSA (as they are called, I've never heard of them before) decide to recruit ex-cons and criminals based on the fact that they are A. disposable and B. they can blend in with all of the other criminals and get some dirt that no suave Bond wanna-be could ever obtain. After a series of tests, it seems that Xander is the man for the job, and against his will, he is sent across the seas to investigate a group by the name of Anarchy '99 who have been dealing with scientists that specialize in nuclear weapons, and as it turns out, they are terrorists and you know where this is heading. 'XXX' is, overall, better than I ever expected or hoped it to be. It is thoroughly entertaining, well-paced, and the Prague scenery is quite captivating. From the constantly blaring heavy-metal & hip-hop soundtrack to the corny one-liners, you know what kind of movie you are watching within the first 10 minutes of viewing it. So if you're disappointed, it's your own fault.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not Possible","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel was fantastic in the Fast and the Furious. In XXX, I was quite disappointed. Most of the stunts he pulls cannot happen. It's like James Bond and Behind Enemy Lines, surviving millions of people with guns and explosives. I don't get it. Although it did have a lot of action sequences which I thought were pretty cool. Samual L. Jackson was decent in this movie too. Overall I don't know what I feel about this movie. "},{"Title":"Who Cares","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It was good fun and cool to look at. XXX is no 'Memento' or 'Citizen Kane' nor is it a 'Bond film'. Don't expect it to be a life changing experience or a cult classic. But anyone who expected something more, either hadn't seen the trailer's or don't understand the Trailer - Movie relationship. XXX was a faced paced, revved up action movie, it was a longer version of it's trailer. (It was also as intelligent and story based as its trailer) But what else would it be.Young males and action fans will like it. I don't think it was aiming for the Oscar or the AFI top 100 (not they mean much). In short if you don't like switching your brains off for 90 minutes and enjoying mindless action, don't waste your money at the cinema's and then complain about it on the internet. Otherwise line up and enjoy it like I did. "},{"Title":"The preposterousness is what's so fun","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  You have to see a movie like this once in a while, I'd just seen 'The Pianist' and was so shaken, naturally, by that masterwork, that seeing XXX in the same day, on dvd let me escape a bit. Why anybody expects this movie to be less laughable that it is, is the mystery. With Xander on his flying motorcycle and (sorry for the SPOILER) clutching onto a ski-lift support while an avalanche barrels down on him was really funny! Vin Diesel is engaging, I like his funny face and one can really spot potential there as an actor, he just needs more experience, so don't write him off just yet please. This movie is definitely for a certain audience and it shouldn't be taken seriously under any circumstances.And thanks again for saving Prague, X! "},{"Title":"It's no Bond, but that's why it works","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is all about being big, loud, fun, and it knew it, and succeeded beyond belief.Leave your brain at the door and enjoy basically.  This is a true callback to the action epics of the 80s, complete with a lead actor that is obviously enjoying himself and what he does.  Diesel isn't a great actor, but he's really good in these roles and that's all that matters.This isn't a high drama that should make you think, so I don't see why people are complaining that it didn't make them think.  It's obviously a high energy action film, and it did it flawlessly.  It also harkened back to the days of 007 doing outrageous stunts and measured up with ease.Does XXX replace Bond?  No, but they can very easily co-exist as they don't really merit comparison, other than they are both spies.Is it a stupid film?  Only if you expected something more than a big action movie, which is what all the promotional materials said it was.  I honestly don't see how someone could see this film after seeing previews for it and have reason to complain as it's exactly what it said it would  be.  To expect more is foolish really, and leaves me to ask what did you expect when you paid your ticket? "},{"Title":"One of my favurite films!","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Maybe you do not belive me, but as a fan of actionsports (as Kolya;) I just love this film! It does not have the greatest story but the stunts and xXx's arrogans beats everything bad in it! The animation of the lavin (snowfall) sux, the worse I've seen! The bike stunts GREAT! Board Not likely he would have been faster than the snow in the reallity, but OK. The Car Pontiac GTO YOU CAN'T GET BETTER!!!  "},{"Title":"Totally over the top, but fun","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've noticed a number of criticisms against this movie based on it'sbelievability. I agree that a number of things in this movie arecompletely over the top and just stretch the realms of imagination,but that's half the fun of this flick! I was prepared to let these thingsslide and just enjoy the action and fun. For that reason, I highlyenjoyed the film, giving it an 8.One special point to note here is that Xander Cage, our hero, hasa surprisingly low body-count in the film when compared againsthis contemporaries (the older Bonds would have low BCs, butPierce Brosnan is nocking up 50+ per film these days).As stated everywhere, the stunts are pretty huge (some way overthe top), and potential viewers should go in with the expectation oflaughing at the ridiculousness of it sometimes, but this is a prettyfun action film!  "},{"Title":"Strap in for a thrill ride","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I once predicted, in my weekly newspaper column, a big future in the movie business for Vin Diesel (Pitch Black, The Boiler Room) and it seems director Rob Cohen has the same idea.After being the driving force behind Cohen's The Fast and the Furious Diesel has followed him into this salute to James Bond.He stars as extreme sports hero and anarchist Xander Cage e spotted by the National Security Agency as a possible alternative to their usual run-of-the-mill spies, who are easy to spot and keep winding up dead.His new boss, Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson), thinks Xander will fit right in with Prague-based group Anarchy 99, led by Yorgi (Marton Csokas), to gather intelligence. Initially he sees them as just a band of ex-Russian soldiers out for a good time but there is something more sinister afoot which could result in the deaths of billions.Yorgi's mysterious girlfriend Yelena (Asia Argento) also adds a little more flavour to the mix.If you are looking for the ultimate no-brainer thrill ride then look no further.And what a ride it is, with the viewer is treated to one mind-boggling stunt after another set to the beat of a killer soundtrack, featuring Rammstein, Drowning Pool, Queens of the Stone Age, Gavin Rossdale and Orbital.In true action movie style it's riddled with plot holes, the plot is wafer thin, most characters are undeveloped and Xander escapes a few too many unbelievable situations but it's all done with so much style that all I have to say is `who cares'. To paraphrase Monty Python, I may not know art at times but I know what I like.Vin Diesel was born to play this role he has the look, the sound and the style and Asia Argento, daughter of Italian horror maestro Dario Argento, makes a more than passable leading lady for the situation and New Zealander Marton Csokas makes an oily villain.Strap in, enjoy the ride, and if you really like it you can look forward to the sequel.  "},{"Title":"ABOVE AVERAGE ACTION FLICK","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Firstly, I was quite in doubts to see this one after soo many negative reviews, but hey, since I'm adrenaline junky too and also a big 007 fan I finally decide to watch it on DVD.I expected nothing, but 2 hour fun. Was I satisfied?Sure. The first half hour is great, good action scene with vette, great coffee scene and laughable Columbian start. After than, the movie goes a little bit slowly and try to copy new bond movies with nearly impossible action scenes, Q's gadgets and a maniac who wants to kill a half of a world population.What puts this movie a little above average is Vin Diesel. He was the right pick for a role of confident, pumped up and I-don't-wannabe-spy type of guy, though he would be wholly inappropriate to play a role of James Bond.Sure we could argue about the plot, but why, since this movie wasn't meant to be an oscar nominee. Since this is one of a better action movies in the last few years, it simply deserves7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great action film, but don't ask for more.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I personally loved the action scenes, one after another. The bike stunts were great to see in application, there were lots of awesome gadgets and cars, planes, helicopters. I also enjoyed the humor, and the filming. (I prefer this film to the latest James Bond in fact.) It was thrilling to watch and I thoroughly enjoyed it!  "}{"Title":"Xander Cage vs James Bond","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Many spy movies came out in 2002-03. But only one of them I had to wait to catch on DVD.XXX was a film which I'd heard mates raving about - supposed to be better than Die Another Day - which was going to take some doing.One thing is for certain Xander Cage takes one look at his US oppisition, Jason Bourne, Jake Hayes, Kelly Robinson, and blows them all away.This leaves one man Bond, James Bond - who(as mentioned earlier) came up hot in DAD.So how do things match up?1. Neither film slowed down. Evens so far.2. Graves was a better bad guy than Yuri. Bond one up.3. Cage has by far the classier weapon(THAT gun is what I would want if I was a spy) and so pulls evens again.4. Halle Berry is fitter than Asia Agento. 5. But the XXX soundtrack edges DAD.6. And the FX of both films were equally classy.Overall - the two super agents cancel each other out - I look forward to the rematch in 2004. "},{"Title":"Oh Shut Up!!!!!!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is not a movie about some boy meeting a girl in France and walking hand in hand on a bridge while drinking coffee and kissing on the side.Please - this is a mind numbing sit back and enjoy the stunts and blowing up of stuff type of spy movie - period.  That's it.  No character association - no trying to figure out the plot - just sit back and enjoy the movie.  Something you do on a rainy Saturday afternoon while sitting on the couch scratching your dog type of movie.  If you want a serious type of movie that you want to look at the lighting or to see if they used the right amount of foliage and what camera angles - go see something else - because you shouldn't be interested in that kind of stuff looking at this movie.Loads of fun, blowing up stuff and of course Mr. D himself.  Looks good without a shirt!!!!!!!!  Bravo. "},{"Title":"Fine whit me good action stuff!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well if you like stile 007 you gonna love this movie it rocks and kick your as* off!,and if you like rock(hard) like Ramstein you also gonna love it!. So if you dont like any of this  dont watch it ,you will get boring if you love all that  see it...,ok the music is not completely my style I must admit that,but it fits good in the film. Definitely not 007 style but the plot and the actions yes ,but Vin diesel at some new effect some awesome one's whit snowbording and para jumping stuff like that looks great,come on be realistic it is a film guys!...I think a lot of people forget it is all about the movies ;o) "},{"Title":"Okay Action Movie","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a good action movie with some flaws. One thing is all of his stunts? Nobody can do what he did. Second, the whole story line. It don't seem like a big threat of what the terrorists were doing. But this movie is still good.7/10 "},{"Title":"I love that movie mostly because of the song and action.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The quality of the picture is very good and the credits in itself at the end of the movie are worth seeing it. What about the beginning too, I love that video clip to start the action.Vin Diesel is using the street language and there is nothing wrong with that. They want to use the concept that a street person very active one could become a secret agent and why not at least if you go in the concept of infiltration it might work.I am not disappointed as I was expecting an action movie and not a Broadway show "},{"Title":"Good Action Packed Film","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film has a good plot and is tangled with mystery. There are a couple of scenes that are a little far fetched but the graphics made up for any deficit, wait until you read the stunt line up and you will understand. I gave it an 8 based on the stunts and graphics, it held my interest and was entertaining. If you are an action person I would recommend owning the DVD or the VHS tape. "},{"Title":"One-liners and explosions - 'nuff said!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  No, this movie isn't overly intellectual.  No, it doesn't have a deep social consciousness.  No, it's not very deep. Yes, it' has a lot of fantastic stunts. Yes, a lot of things explode. Yes, Vin Diesel and others spout off some great one-liners (Slap me again and I'm gonna throw you a beatin'). It ain't Oscar material but it sure is FUN! "},{"Title":"The Perfect B-movie","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anyone who gives this movie less than a 7 (6 maybe) just didn't get it. I give it an 8, because it is the perfect B-movie. No pretensions to high art, bad overdone special effects, bad acting, dumb dialogue, wooden characters. Bring it on! Bring on the high energy, comic book action; bring on the save the world plot; bring on the really bad  villains; bring on the ultraviolence!  The music knots the movie together with its pounding rhythms -- when the editing fails, which it often did.  I actually thought the tunes were one of the strong points of the movie, and I am no metalhead. That, and all the big explosions! The James Bond references made by others were right on the money.  This is the American Bond crude, rude and to the point. This movie is far better than every Roger Moore Bond movie; and compares well to the Pierce Brosnan ones.  But a better comparison is the Die Hard series. Pure action and thrills.  Check your brain at the door, and enjoy a wild, testosterone-driven thrill ride, because XXX delivers. "},{"Title":"A James Bond For Teenagers","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had mixed expectations when I read the IMBd critics. Finally my wife and I were satisfied about this James Bond for teenagers. The look and the music is really not comparative to the classics of James Bond movies. The hardrock soundtrack is very bad. Please don´t insert again such bad music in XXX2. Okay there were many actions scenes and special effects but they are far away from the ones we see in James Bond films. The avalanche scene was very realistic but the mountain chase was also similar to James Bond. Last but not least the audio sound was not clear enough on DVD.You may think now why I compare this film always with James Bond movies? The answer is very simple XXX is a charmless copy of James Bond. That´s it. Anyway worth seeing. 7/10. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS!!!!!!!*** A big long X-Games commercial where Vin Deisel procedes to blow stuff up and never get so much as injured in a totally unrealistic manner. End of story.","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, this film is by far, *anything* but realistic. But hey, sh*t blows up, so of course people are going to flock to the video stores as fast as their asses can go, and get this film. By family members totally loved the entire thing, but most of them have very shallow taste in movies and they all agree that DEEP RISING is one of the best movies ever. So, their vote really doesn't count.In other cases, I was actually quite excited for a small cameo by German metal band Rammstein. That was actually quite exciting. The rest of the film is nothing to brag about. It was watchable and I was able to sit through the whole thing without laughing at it too much, but all in all, XXX is nothing special. The whole thing about this is that lots of sh*t blows up and tons of people die. OOOH! So everyone's gonna get excited. It ain't Academy Award material and that really doesn't matter either because the Academy's job is basically to pick out the most boring film of the last four months of the year and give it some kind of award. That's that right in a nutshell. But, in the case of XXX, there are a sh*tload of people who are really pumped-up about this film, and then there are the people who want to start protests against it. Okay, ITS A MOVIE! Give it a rest already! So it sucks, okay? You don't have to go and start a war over how sucky a movie is. Drop it already!!!Okay, so...Vin Deisel runs around, pretends to act (at least does a somewhat worthy attempt at acting), doesn't react realistically to situations, and of course...blows sh*t up. Okay, he is that good of an actor, he's got huge biceps so of course all the girls are going to cling to him like a magnet (he isn't that hott by the way) but at least he's cool in the movie. This guy makes up the ultimate party person.The music was also very good. The opening song by Rammstein is great, and there are also many other hard-hitting tracks within the film (I bought the soundtrack before I even saw the movie). The sounds of bands like Queens of the Stone Age, Gavin Rossdale, Pastor Troy, Nelly and lots more are all heard in here. They all fit into the movie aswell. So, that was another plus for XXX.The villians are stupid, and since this movie is trying to be a more revved up version of some GOLDENEYE James Bond flick, of course most of the bad guys are going to get shot to pieces, and Vin Deisel will never even recieve a scratch. There are also a hell of a lot of little X-Game style moves in here, and its pretty easy to say that most of them were so unrealistic, they might as well have animated in all of computers. The story moves in any way possible in order to get Vin Diesel to every single frontier where lots of action can happen. So, of course he has to go to some mountain where he narrowly escapes from an avalanche (without a scratch, I might add). Okay, I couldn't even remember why or how he got up on the mountain. The whole thing just moves terribly in a circle where stuff just continually procedes to explode. Now, they are cool, but it gets a little tiresome after a while.And...oh god, there's gonna be a XXX2! We're all screwed now. So, yeah, there's no Oscar worthy material, no good acting, but hey, at least stuff blows up.XXX gets 3/5. (only because I feel a 2 would be too low of a rating). "}{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX was stupid and ridiculous, full of mediocre acting, gratuitous sex and violence, an explosion every scene.  Here's the thing though.  Two things actually, number one it's intended as pure escapism, nothing more, nothing less, and on that it succeeds.  Number two it's James Bond.  Bond is also ridiculous escapism, full of mediocre acting, gratuitous sex and violence, and an explosion every scene.  Xander Cage is an american James Bond.  I know, James Bond is sophisticated and stylish, but that's why I say Cage is an AMERICAN James Bond...british are sophisticated and stylish.  Americans are brash, loud, and crude.  James Bond represents the british stereotype, Xander Cage represents the american stereotype.  How can there be any doubt of this, when one of the most famous Bond scenes (Bond parachuting with a british flag parachute) is almost identically recreated in XXX with Xander Cage parasailing with an american flag parachute?  The story could be substituted with James bond at any point and it would be exactly the same.  You can't judge a movie like this on the merits of high art...the criteria for its success is really a criterion is it fun?  Yes...yes it is.  It's pointless, ridiculous, and absolutely sensationalistic, but it's fun.  Based on the merits of its criterion, it achieves its goal perfectly.  10/10 "},{"Title":"A fun film","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a fun and entertainig film. While the situations and action and stunts were indeed unrealistic and ridiculous, it was all set forth to produce a fun and enjoyable film. And while the acting was not Academy Award material, the diologue was funny, and Vin made a convincing meat-head action star. This film made me laugh. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"I thought it was awesome...........","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Fabulous stunts (if you like extreme sports). Fabulous acting. I don't think they could have anyone else play the lead role but Vin Diesel. The Mission Impossible for the New Millenium, can't wait for the sequels. I know most people don't like sequels but if they are well written and well acted they will succeed. This will be one of them. Keep it up. "},{"Title":"Just what I expected","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Man, people are ragging on this film as if it had aspired to high art and failed.  It was a good action flick.  Nothing more, nothing less.  I've been working at home almost non-stop for over 50 hours in the last 3 days and I've had the movie on as background noise for a lot of that time.  I've watched it 8 times now.  I don't see any real plot holes.  It's a bit farfetched maybe, but certainly no more than any of the Bond movies.  I'm not familiar with the geography around Prague (and I suspect 99.9% of viewers are in the same boat (NPI)) so I can't comment on whether the boat scene was believable or not.  But that's not the point.  Vin Diesel gave a good performance considering the character he was portraying.  He seemed to fit the role quite well.  Argento was suitably sexy and pleasant to look at. She has been in plenty of movies and is a decent actress, but she didn't get much chance to show it in this one.  But that's not the point either. The point is that this movie achieved what it set out to achieve.  It had some fun action scenes, Vin ran around and kicked a lot of butt while cracking wise, things blew up, Sam Jackson was his usual cool self, Asia looked sexy, Yorgi was fun to listen to, and the world was saved.  Oh yeah, and they even got in a public service message that smoking is bad for your health. )  If you expected more than that, then you simply had very unrealistic expectations. "},{"Title":"I don't get this!----Possible Spoilers-------","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  At first i didn't want to see this movie because i thought that XXX was a James Bond wannabee but all my friends told me you have to see it it is awesome.So last night i rented it and i thought it was pretty good not the best movie but good none the less .Vin Diesel is one of my fav actors so i liked this ovie cause he is in it.Lots of stunts very good and what makes it better is that Vin did most of them himself.My main complaint is that some of the Fx arn't that great the don't meet standards that are there today.But one good thing about the movie is the cars mainly the GTO that car kicks @$$.Now this has notin to do wit the main movie but i found that the transfer on the Dvd wasn't that great Columbia Pictures could of done alot better!Overall good movie lots of action,stunts and some funny parts.Final Score  7/10 "},{"Title":"Only watch if you like Vin Diesel","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movies stunts were to over the top, I believe that in order for a stunt to be cool, and a movie to be taken half way seriously, something must be possible.  One of the early sequences where he is thrown literally 200 feet into the sky on a bike was just too much and not neccesary .  I think it could have been a better movie with less of the bullcrap stunts.  Vin Diesel is very charismatic in all of his scenes and literally does make this movie.  I just hope to see better work from him. "},{"Title":"Excellent, the most intense ride a movie has provided in a long time","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let me tell you....if you are an adrenalin junky, this movie is for you. A nail biting, on the edge of your seat action packed thrill seeking ride you'll ever incounter in the form of film. Even though the plot is unbelievable the pure fun in this movie far out ways any type of realism. If you have any quams about seeing this movie and love action flix, don't waite see it now!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Come on people, it's not THAT bad!","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok. I will admit that XXX wasn't the best action movie ever made but it's not as bad as most people make it out to be. And I'm not just saying that because it has Vin Diesel in it (who is major eye candy). I didn't think I'd like it because I'm not really into major action flicks but this one I did. I liked the whole plot and the action sequences were fun to watch! Especially the dirt bike scene. The avalanche scene was cool but I think the stuntman did way too many loops! Vin Diesel is not that bad of an actor. I think he did a great job in XXX. Most of his one-liners were cheesy but it was fun to hear him say them. Well, I don't really have that much to say about this film except it was fun to watch and it would definitely be one that I'd like to own. Bye and thanks for reading my review!  ~Wasn't that GTO sweet? I really liked the paint job on it. And the Corvette being ran off the bridge was just really painful to watch! Hee hee.~  "},{"Title":"The EXTREME Secret Agent... not too bright though...","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  To get to the point, if you like action (such as myself), this movie is for you. If you're looking for acting ability, watch Citizen Kane or something. This is a leave your brain at the door and enjoy the eyecandy kind of movie.Just 2 complaints, the build up to the character Xander Cage becoming a secret agent was terrible. I did like that whole scene in the diner though.***SKIP THIS PART, CONTAINS SPOILERS*** The other one is the end, he could have stopped that sub wayyyyyy before, all he had to do was pull the hard drive out which he did with ease AFTER fiddling with the missile. ***SKIP THIS PART, CONTAINS SPOILERS***Other then that, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Better Than Die Another Day","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS Although I'm a big Bond fan, I will say that Bond fans shouldn't be allowed to comment on this film. It's obvious they can't be objective. While nowhere near as good as the best Bond films, XXX was way better than Pierce Brosnan's latest offering. I hear Bond fans talking about the mindless action and I'm wondering what they thought of DAD. At least this movie spends the first hour or so developing the plot before it jumps into the action. And Vin Diesel, in spite of appearances, is an accomplished actor with a better resume than Bronsnan. Much of the negative reviews are based on form rather than substance. And that said, at least you don't see XXX wearing nothing but a tuxedo in zero degree temperature or driving a $500,000 invisible car that the gov't paid for. And there isn't a long drawn-out fight with a supervillian with explosions going off all around them. Imagine actually shooting the villain with a sniper's rifle instead of doing it that stylized Bond way! And Vin Diesel actually looks concerned and worried many times during the film; maybe if he threw in a smirk or two or a one-liner while the scientists were being gassed Bond fans would be happy. Or maybe if the villain had diamonds in his face or a bullet in his brain which will eventual kill him (but is making him stronger in the meantime!!!), Bond fans would be able to identify with him. Now, I ask you, what's the real dumb action film? I'm sorry, this movie is decent; you will have a fun time watching it. "}{"Title":"Action (Fast and Furious)","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film does not have pretenses; it is a reasonable action movie in the James Bond Secret Agent genre, (with the added outcast twist well known from the Dirty Dozen) but you know what you're getting when you rent this DVD (or at least you should).   The movie serves as a star vehicle for the muscular and athletic Vin Diesel, and borrows liberally from the conventions of the spy movies of the James Bond type evil Slavic villains, sinister plans for world destruction/domination, elaborate high tech devices, and even more elaborate,picturesque secret hideouts of the evil plotters, and (of course) an attractive Russian moll, who may or may not be what she appears to be. The plot is simple, if somewhat dopey, but servicable for the goal of inserting Mr. Diesel into the formula.  He is a renegade extreme athlete well-known enough to have a cult following around the world.  Threatened with incarceration in a Federal prison for his past and recent transgressions, he chooses to cooperate with the National Security Agency (which in real life is responsible only for intercepting, translating and analyzing foreign intelligence) in order to clear his record.  The theory is that Diesel's Xander Cage character will be more readily accepted by the targeted renegade gang of former Soviet soldiers operating out of Prague, in the Czech Republic, where previous attempts at infiltration have resulted in the agents' demise. The James Bond action which ensues contrasts the scruffy, gruff Diesel, (who is nonetheless affable) with the effete and smirky Bond of Pierce Brosnan.  (Diesel also cuts a much more physically fit and commanding figure than the skinny wimp from Ireland who is Bond's latest incarnation). Certainly some of the extreme action is a bit far-fetched, but that's what these movies are for.   The Diesel engine has arrived. "},{"Title":"Cheap plot, good action","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As the tagline says, Xander Cage ( Diesel ) is a new breed of special agent. Well, if you compare him with our familiar special agents like Mr. Bond you may find some things in common, like having a boss. Here M is replaced by Gibbons ( Jackson ). Anyway xXx has also some new things to offer. He's not quite a serious special agent. He's an adrenaline junkie who rather thinks life is quite a joke.And his special abilities are now utilised to save mankind from a dangerous nuclear weapon unleashed by a mad criminal. Such a cheap plot... but the movie succeeds to attract audience (mostly teens) probably because of its cinematography, superb background music and cast selection.No one would play Cage better. This movie can only be seen just for having Vin Diesel in action.  "},{"Title":"James Bond for the video game generation","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Minor spoilers ahead.XXX was a really nice surprise for me. I had the interesting opportunity to see Die Another Day and XXX back to back and, to my amazement, XXX was clearly better. While DAD had a very promising first quarter, the movie really fell through towards the end and was really quite boring. XXX on the other hand delivers a complete package and entertains all the way through.Comparing these two isn't entirely fair, since they rely on totally different things James Bond's biggest catch has always been the charm and suave of the central character and, of course, the gadgets. XXX on the other hand is based on Vin Diesel's testosteronic performance, and ass-kicking action. You can almost smell the gasoline (no pun intended) while watching it.The biggest weakness with DAD and all the recent Bond-films isn't Pierce Brosnan, as many have claimed. On the contrary, I think he is almost as fitting in the role as Connery was. The main problems are with the writing and focusing too much on action. Where's the feel of those classic Bonds like Octopussy or Dr. No? Instead we see a bunch of explosions, dime-a-dozen Bond-girls and Brosnan shaving with a Philishave. If you want to make an action movie, do it with some attitude, like XXX did.That said, there are a bunch of problems in XXX as well, some of which are hopefully fixed in the sequel. First and foremost, if you're declaring to have created a secret agent of the next generation, you should avoid copying your tricks from the old ones. The Q-character was totally useless as was Xander's supercar. Also, at times I found myself wondering if Xander is a total idiot. I don't know if this is because of Diesel, the story or the dialogue but it really hurt the credibility of the characters actions. Then, of course, there was the ...and it will plunge the world into chaos BWAHAHAHA! -style bad guy, a cliché which should have not survived the eighties... And naturally he had to have a band of henchmen that were killed one by one. For some people these things are the salt of the movie but in my opinion you can't make a camp-movie with a budget as large as this one had. It just wouldn't make any sense. Besides, XXX clearly doesn't want to be a parody, although it doesn't take itself too seriously either, which is a good thing.All in all, I enjoyed XXX quite a lot and am sure to see the sequel as well.7 of 10 "},{"Title":"On track to become Moonraker 2.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  (spoilers?)I am a big fan of the James Bond series.  But spy movies in general are quite fun to watch.  xXx is just way to stupid.  It's similar to Moonraker in this fact.  The villan is as stupid as the idiot in Moonraker and actually the villan in Moonraker would have killed this guy long ago. The villan is an absolute moron.Other complains Sound editing is poor.  The sound effects during the concert parts were overpowering.  The music is muffled.  Bad combination. Kept thinking something was wrong with my speakers when Rammestein came on at the beginning.The plot is disjointed.  I'm not sure if there is any plot holes, but the plot is choppy.  It skips around.  Not totally explaining anything.Vin Diesel isn't horribly bad in the movie, but he ain't good as always.And let's face it, this is Sony's revenge against MGM to losing out on getting their own 007.  And frankly, it's a good thing MGM won that. Because this would have ruined the series more than Die Another Day. It also came into the same problems people complain about Bond.  It isn't violent or sexy enough in today's society.  My copy I got from Blockbuster had a deleted scene called Girls.  They blurred em out on the bed. Someone was obviously peddling to the wrong group of people here.  More than likely... Teens.  This movie desperately wanted an R rating.  Which probably would have made the movie much better than the crap that came out.5/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 4/10         "},{"Title":"XXX is not ZZZ","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"    When XXX fired a heat seeking missile at the sniper who smoked all the time, I almost lost a lot of respect for the film.  Not the best plot in the world but the film is a guilty pleasure.  I like the film despite all its imperfections.   Mainly because of Asia Argento and Marton Csokas the movie is great.  Vin Diesel has a stage presence but Asia's course sexuality and Marton's creepiness upstage Diesel.  If the Hollywood hunk wants to rise above becoming the next Keanu Reeves, he best watch and learn from Asia and Marton, as well as from Samuel L. Jackson, who even when playing a two-dimensional character such as Gibbons he still can add depth.    Much of the movie is two-dimensional.  All the characters realize their solipsism but they cherish their roles anyway -- life may be just a movie but at least the players are going to have fun.  Why else would everyone gather at the bridge in Prague, instead of flee, to watch XXX on Ahab even though they know poison gas will be released.    Prague is another reason for liking XXX, the movie.  Being a big fan of Kafka, I have wanted to visit this city.  I was shown Prague with car chases, raves, and anarchists thrown in the mix (if Kafka had been shown this side, he might not have been depressed).    Oh, yes, I'm a big fan of XXX.  I don't know if I would go see the sequel -- depends on whether Asia is in it. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, and lots of fun","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel gives a great performance as Xander Cage, a tattooed, punky, extreme sports agent who is forced to cooperate with government officials. He is sent to the Czech Republic, to get information on a group called Anarchy 99. Although its predictable, its loads of fun and highly entertaining. Lots of great stunts that will keep you entertained to the very end. This is an action filled movie and if you liked Diesel is The Fast and the Furious you'll love him in XXX.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great fun, from a rising star","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After the Fast and the Furious, XXX was exactly what I expected. Well acted by Vin Diesel, the XXX character, clearly modeled after Bond immediately reminded me of the toughness of Connery, with much, much wittier humor than Moore. While some of the scenarios we're over the top, they're no worse than some of the stuff Bond pulled in his movies. On that count, they're parallel. However XXX had better action than Goldfinger, better style than Goldeneye, and humor on par with Austin Powers! This movie rocks, remember to suspend your belief at the door... "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked this movie, appreciate that while it was non-stop action, and yes violent, it did not go the graphic route...as well, the vocab was great, no need for intense harsh language...it didn't need a R or X rating. (Enough X's in the title I guess....;-) It was relatively good clean entertainment. Sure a bit cheesy...but for the most part did the job, entertained me for the 2 hours. I'll watch XXX2!  "},{"Title":"Bad acting,bad script, FUN movie!!!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie sucks on most filmmaking levels.  The acting and script are just plain sad but for 2 hours I was glued to the TV.  This is a movie about just enjoying a movie.  Put your brain on hold,sit back and have a good time. The action was cool and the script and acting was so bad you can't turn away.  I enjoyed it, oh well. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic stunts, plot was good, but..","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After reading many reviews I finally gave this movie a chance and it wasn't half bad...i said half.Summary Xander Cage is an extreme sports adrenaline junkie slash small time criminal, who is famous due to his stunts and videos that he makes whilst he does something weird. At the same time the NSA are looking to hire someone from the outside with a track record of being a criminal that will help them break a Russian mob ring, that seem to be up to no good. Xander gets chosen for the task and after a few tests and over the top stunts he gets sent to Russia for the mission.Vin Diesel is great in this movie as being the tough new agent who has no idea what he is doing, but still does it with style when he has to escape or to infiltrate. As for everyone else they made the movie look bad. I counted 3 cars, 5 motorbikes and a few buildings blown up, the motorbike stunts looked so fake they actually bored me, but the snowboarding stunts were a breath taking! The ending was not bad, but there were some things in the movie that were terrible. Lame love scenes, Vin Diesel seems to have a hard time kissing the women!I rated this movie 7/10 "}{"Title":"All in all it's a pretty standard action adventure.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This could have been a very good film, but its just too damn much of the same old spy-action-stuff that we've been deluged with due to the Bond films. I know it was designed to be a clone of the Bond films, an affectionate fun-poking, so to speak. But it did it really have to stick so closely to the formula? I mean, they even had a Q character.Vin Diesel carries the film, of course, as was intended. But whilst this movie will not harm his box-office appeal in the slightest, it's also not really stretching him at all. Neither did Fast and Furious, for that matter. He's capable of a lot more. I just hope he doesn't end up getting sucked into the Hollywood no-brainer action-hero role. That would be a terrible shame.Samuel L Jackson, likewise, hasn't much to do in this film.All in all it's a pretty standard action adventure with a charismatic leading man and lots of gadgets and special effects. Funny in places, and enjoyable enough if you just want to be entertained for a couple of hours without having to think at all. "},{"Title":"Not the smartest movie ever, but It have the action I expected.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I went to the cinema to see this movie, I expected 2 hour long action with one of my favourite action actors, not a great and detailed storyline or a regular spy-thriller.Of course if I wanted to sit and look for errors and overexadurations, or spend the whole time irritating myself blue over the thin story, I could have done so. But I never expected this movie to be like James Bond or any other spy movies. I expected it to be pure raw action with breath-taking stunts, cool cars and beautiful women. And that is just what I got.When this come on DVD, I will purchase it for sure, since this is the best action movie I have seen the past year. "},{"Title":"My name is Cage, Xander Cage...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first sequence of this movie is a great joke of Bond moments.I love how Vin Diesel has perform this character. I love the mix of a tender guy with great body, and great sense of humour. Is the Bond of this century, and probably every rapper in America should to know that XXX has more similities with them than Bond, or other similar.The music is great, but the romantic moments are bored.Is not typical in the Bond conception of let´s save the world, Cage doesn´t work, he only want to do something risky, and be as he is, only an adventure man. I love Bond, but XXX speaks my language,  and I love him.  "},{"Title":"Filled with adrenaline","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Nowadays I visit the movie theater less and less frequently. There was a time when I used to see at least one film a week or so but unfortunately I've lost this habit completely. Nevertheless, for some odd reason I felt I just had to see XXX, although I read a really bad review about it and I had practically no idea who the hell this Diesel bloke was in the first place.On the other hand I loved the crazy trailer and said to myself this could be stupid yet massively entertaining experience. That's exactly what it turned out to be and I certainly don't regret taking a risk, especially when my brother paid for the whole fun. I also thought that this would be a nice way to warm-up while waiting for Die another day.XXX was an incredibly fast-paced and energetic movie, filled with adrenaline and action sequences one more speedier than the last. I didn't instantly become a serious Vin Diesel fan but he was quite ok in the leading part of Xander Cage. Sam Jackson made a fine supporting role but that's irrelevant because this isn't supposed to be an intelligent, refined drama in the first place.XXX is a stylish mixture of Brosnan's Bonds, Mission Impossible -movies and well...The Adventures of Ford Fairlane. If you love a good, solid action movie don't wait for the vhs/dvd release, watch it now when it's still out on the cinema. 8/10. "},{"Title":"wow!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  ever since i saw the fast and the furious i have wanted to watch all of vin diesel's movies - xXx being no exception.  being a major fan of action movies, fast cars and gadgets (can u understand why i like james bond?!) i needed to see this film, and i loved it. from the opening stunt sequence, i knew id love this film, and the only let down were the lines - the 2nd to last line spoken by diesel was the worst 'welcome to the danger zone' er....hello?!?! why spoil a v good climax in an excellent film with the worst line in possibly film history?! diesel seems to excel in this film, his driving skills in TFATF rubbing off in the high-speed sequences, and his attitude towards everything is brilliant!  he manages to carry some seriously bad moments and lines, though not always succeeding. it is obvious that james bond has rubbed off on this film 'i want all that...in here' pointing to loads of gadgets and weapons that he wants in his black car, that looks v much like the black car at the end TFATF. as much i love vin diesel, he will never beat james bond, the original secret agent, but he does almost equal him - he has a better wardrobe, does not bed nearly as many girls (only 1 if my memory serves me correctly) however, why does the gorgeous diesel have to wear a sheep for most of the film?!?! overall, this film rules and i would seriously recommend that people go and watch it - there is something in it for everyone. 10/10 excellent "},{"Title":"Taking James Bond one step further!!!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The creators of xXx have taken the tired old James Bond formula and successfully revamped it for new audiences. This is demonstrated in the very first scene of the film where a tuxedo clad secret agent is pursued into a head banging club in Prague. There, he stands out like a sore thumb and is promptly shot and killed. It's rather symbolic of what this movie is trying to do. It has the basics of a James Bond film like exotic locations, impossible stunts, cool cars, gadgets (even a Q), and beautiful women. But it throws in new twists like extreme sports, more modern music, and attitude. Lots of attitude. In the end, it's more entertaining than recent 007 flicks.If you're a fan of action films, then you'll love this movie. xXx has several show stopping scenes including an explosive chase at a Colombian drug processing plant, a chase on a mountain between Diesel on a snowboard and some snowmobiles in an avalanche, and a gunfight in a castle. Another clever action scene features Diesel and Argento chasing a runaway boat in his GTO. They attempt to stop the boat while reading the instruction manual in the car that describes all the newly installed gadgets. Not only was it amusing, it added an extra edge to the chase.Vin Diesel is his usual bad self. This role was definitely tailor made for him. As much as his cocky attitude is unappealing to me, it fit the character just fine. Xander Cage has the potential to be a cool long running action anti-hero. Samuel L. Jackson is kind of cheesy as NSA Agent Gibbons, but again it's his attitude that makes him fun in this film. (It's ironic that in recent Marvel Comics they've been depicting Nick Fury, Agent of SHIELD to look just like Jackson. That's exactly his character in this film minus the cigar and eyepatch.) Asia Argento also does a fine job as the first Bond Girl.er.X Girl. She's both tough and sexy at the same time and more than a match for Diesel.The locations are cool and the music is a strange mix of Czech heavy metal, dance music, and even opera. It all comes together to give the film an exotic feel. Another interesting note is that the final credits are probably the most elaborate I've ever seen. While James Bond opens with dancing naked woman visuals, xXx closes with elaborate CG that you'll probably want to stick around and watch. Overall this is a fun moviegoing x-perience and a great popcorn flick.I know this is going to make me sound like an old fogie, but here goes. First off, I didn't care for a lot of the heavy metal music. I generally don't like songs where there are guitars set on 11 and blaring with a guy incoherently screaming lyrics. That describes half of this soundtrack. You may be into that sort of thing, but it didn't suit my personal tastes. I did like the rest of the soundtrack a lot, though.The sound was turned up just a bit too loud, too. I knew it was going to be a problem when, in the opening scene, the sound of one guy knocking another into a door blew my eardrum out. Thankfully the high frequency buzz left ringing in my ears muffled a lot of the rest of the cranked up sound. Bring your earplugs.Finally, there are a couple of moments where the movie seems like it's begging to be accepted by its target audience. Cage rails against a senator for attempting to outlaw skateboards, video games, and music. It's so preachy that it's laughable. Then we're constantly reminded that Cage loves snowboarding and he learned to shoot guns by playing video games. It seems so desperate to connect with teens that it doesn't realize that it's unnecessary. They're going to think it's cool anyway.In the end xXx is a fun action adventure and a cool new entry to the spy movie genre. I look forward to seeing what they pull off in a sequel. 7.3/10  "},{"Title":"Bond, eat your heart out!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Thought i was going to see just another action movie, but it came out completely the other way! I just saw THE action movie! It's a persiflage of the bond movies. And a pretty good one, i may say. Just enough humor, action and suspence to make it a 10 out of 10! The story itself sucks, but what the hell....... if you want action....you got it with XXX! "},{"Title":"A truly tense film.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is action at it's best! Although Vin Deisel showed a poor performance, I went to watch this last night because I am a great fan of Samuelle l Jackson, a few of my favourite's are 51st state, shaft and I'm sure these will soon be greeted by his latest film. But unfortunately I was half asleep the whole way through although I jumped a little at the scenes with him in, sadley he was no more than a character actor to my liking.It is a bit corny in parts, but the action doesn't help it. I can't say this is amoungst the top 10 favourites of mine, the plot is spectacular but it needs tweeking just a little first of all they should have made Xander a reluctant secret agent (which I expected anyway), also to be honest they should wipe out the whole machine destroying the world thing. Which is stupid.There isn't much to say about this film, but I will say that if you like the idea of your ear drums exploding go and see it, if not wait for the dvd and turn it right down because it's rather worth watching even when you take off it's many faults. 7.4/10 "},{"Title":"Everything Pierce Brosnan could ever dream of.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel as Xander Cage is the Bond of the new millenium.  Amidst the mayhem and anarchy he shows compassion, brains and that he fears no man. He has some pretty cool friends at the front end of the movie, too. I can't wait for XXX 2. "},{"Title":"Good movie! I would recommend it...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked this movie because of the gripping and breathtaking action, cool actors and decent acting and the interesting plot. I would recommend this movie to all my male friends (because of all the action) and I would definitely say that its worth the money. If you're a religious person, this movie might not be for you. The morals and the contents of this movie are not right. I am sure that many people did not like this movie because of what the message of this movie is We have to be very cool and kill mane people in order to become a secret agent. As for entertainment purposes, go and see it. You won't be disappointed with the action and the special effects.  "}{"Title":"GREAT ACTION, FAST PACED, AND GOOD HUMOR.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really liked this movie for the action and real to life situations it portrayed.  The pace was fast, so I never got bored.  The humor was gut-busting at times.  The only thing I did not like was it was too short. At the end, I was disappointed.  I believe they could have stretched that out another 15-20 minutes and gave us a few more action shots as well as one last humorous situation.  But, overall I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"XXX was high flying non stop action","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After watching XXX I found it to be a great movie where there was nothing but fast in your face action.  Although when the beginning of the movie started I found it to be confusing and not that great.  As the movie picked up so did the plot and it took off.  I thought that vin diesel played an excellent role and was well suited for the part.  Beating out 007 this movie did in my books for a new change of characters and alittle different story line. "},{"Title":"Good fun tongue-in-cheek action spy romp!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Despite being an American straight copy of our home grown James Bond, I quickly warmed to the character of Xander Cage. No matter how cool it would be to be a spy, it becomes harder and harder every year to relate to Mr Bond, with his Tuxedo's, Dinner Parties and Martini's, whereas rough and ready Xander embodies todays culture and society, drinking pints, checking out metal core nightclubs, driving fast cars and blowing stuff up, he's just out to have fun! And I for one (and I know alot of other people will too) can relate to that. And I think this is where xXx succeeds, by creating a semi-believable character, creating this person, that could quite easily be anyone, not just the Oxford/Harvard top-of-the-class toff. I can see this becoming a big franchise.Story-wise is a slight dissapointment, the copy of the Bond Baddie is just that, a Bond Baddie, there is no altering of perception here, its just the same old, same old, bond bad guy here. As usual he wants to blow up the world, but not really for any logical reason. Ive always wondered in films like this, why do the evil henchmen and scientists create these chemical/nuclear/biological weapons, to get a fat pay check, so their boss may destroy the world. Do they think they can still spend their $50,000,000 in a post apocalyptic environment. And this kinda dissapointed me too. If your going to ground a character in reality and get people to relate to him, then you've got to create a believable story.The Script however, doesnt let down at all. It is incredibly punchy, with some brilliant one liners from Xander and one or two other good ones from the secondary characters.Overall this film is a lot of fun. Its worth seeing purely for Vin Diesel's excellent portrayal of this character. This will make Vin Diesel into the action star he deserves to be.  "},{"Title":"xXx The New Trend Of Action Movies","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a good action movie, after the success of The Fast and The Furious; Director Rob Cohen takes actor Van Diesel to the limits. It's a nice simple action flick.I hated the villain character, too weak to be true, so is the script. I think the only good dialog spoken was by Samuel L Jackson.The sound score is great, excellent soundtrack i must say.Is this the new spy action movie trend ? There is xxx 2 in 2003.  "},{"Title":"sound effects are superb","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  No doubt, the sound effects are quite superb.  The scene of the avalanche rumbles in my chest when just thinking about the film.  Even with a score of 6, I recommend seeing it for the special effects alone.  It remains adolescent in its theme, but one should not miss this action thriller, especially if James Bond enthusiasts are in the audience. "},{"Title":" 1. reason to see XXX. Vin Diesel ...","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What other reason do you need to go see this movie. That's why I saw it. Thats not all though because XXX is a mad movie. Its full of action and some pretty damn awesome stunts. Oh plus Vin Diesel of course and he has a sense of humour. What else do you need. Gotta Love it. I do. "},{"Title":"Imagine!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  For the lack of the better word, the movie is cool! The man is tough and all the 'tricks' are absolutely amazing... This is the best movie so far in this category! Thank you everybody who made it. I simply loved it and I don't remember when I was so excited about the movie last time! That was great! And I really loved the way he speaks. "},{"Title":"JAMES BOND MOVE OVER- ALL THE WAY TO THE TATTOO PARLOR","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Its a fun time, watching one x-treme sport based stunt after another. And just want you all to know that the opening stunt - (car off bridge)really did take place just north of sacramento, california.  The bridge is real, and they really did run that gorgeous thing off it, man attached. "},{"Title":"Typical","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a predictable action movie.  There are sex scenes, things blow up, and the villain is foreign.  Don't get me wrong, it was not a bad movie, but it was just way too predictable.  And now there are making a sequal? "},{"Title":"Action Hero for the 00's","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel stars as Xander Cage a.k.a. xXx, an eXtreme sports star who's antics end up attracting the attention of the authorities.  As a deal to stay out of jail, X reluctantly agrees to become a secret agent and infiltrate a gang of Russian criminals.The plot is not what is important in this film, and much like in Diesel's resent offering `The Fast and the Furious', the loose plot is used as an excuse to string together a series of action sequences, and for Diesel to wear tight singlets.  The action stunts in XXX are even more over the top and unbelievable than those in The Fast and the Furious, which is a feat in itself.  Instead of the action being limited to cars, XXX goes all out and includes crazy stunts on all manner of vehicle.  While Fast and the Furious appealed to bevans, XXX targets action fans and extreme sports fan alike.Although not particularly a fan of the brainless-action genre, I found it impossible to not enjoy this film.  XXX makes Bond look like a frail old man, and other action stars look like weaklings.  With the sheer bulk of Diesel, and a great rock soundtrack, this flick has a hardcore edge that I found appealing.Emerging as the Action Hero for the 00's, Diesel delivers exactly what is promised.  XXX is packed full of effects, stunts, music and mayhem. The result - a slick action flick not to be missed on the big screen.  "}{"Title":"Great action sequences, Very bad dialogs","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie ever since I saw PITCH BLACK several weeks ago. I didn't expect much, just an enjoyable action movie with my new favorite star, Vin Diesel. And still the movie has managed to disappoint me. The action is there all right, and the cinematography was excellent. BUT, a movie requires a basic interesting plot and reasonable dialogs, not to mention good acting. All these were missing !!! I thought Vin Diesel chose right not to make a sequel to THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS, since it was a pretty stupid movie. But now I have to question his artistic motives, because he comes out quite pathetic in XXX (and to think they are planning a series ...)If you'll leave your brain outside the theater and forget that Vin Diesel ever played Riddick, then you might enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Borderline good","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel, plays Xander Cage, a renegade punk who likes to play around and make daredevils stunts.  We first get a glimpse of him stealing a senators corvette, and then drive it off a bridge while parachuting out of it before it explodes into a canyon, as his colleagues video tape the entire thing ready to post his latest adventure on the internet for the whole world to see.  However, Xander is later ambushed at his home by a secret agency led by Samuel Jackson who decides that it has lost too many secret agents and would like to use thugs like Xander who might be intelligent and adventurous, but just expendable enough to infiltrate a secret agency overseas bent on destroying (what else) the world.  Xander having 2 strikes against him for his lawlessness can't exactly refuse, his bridge stunt would be strike 3 and it's either take the mission or spend 20 years in jail.So this is bond with a twist really.  Does it work?  Well the stunts are great, the plot is typical Bond recycling..  nothing wrong with that but I can't think of a film I have seen in recent years that left me so borderline.  Is it cool.. oh hell yeah,  check out that snow boarding scene, what about believable??  Not at all, this movie is all about fun and escapism anyway...  How can I not like a film that has Rammstein opening up the show!!  Skin???  Oh yeah there's some good one's in there.But then there is Diesel.  Does he work in this film, yes when he has to flex muscle either physically or verbally with one liners he's a winner.  But when it comes to being an intelligent character no, because deep down when you look at him he's not sophisticated he's not a ladies man.  He is a thug, and walks around as if he's putting potholes in the floor.  Kind of awkward.  At times I found myself really enjoying this film, and at other times not..  I came out thinking is this a neat new character, or is this just Bond mixed with Xtreme Sports?   Is this a good escape?? oh hell yeah, sexy???  sure!  Well acted?  Not really...  And Samuel Jackson's talent and character is wasted.Worth seeing?  maybe..Rating 6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Xtreme, Xciting, Xcellent.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX Starring Vin Diesel was quiet suprising to my standards. For two reasons. I have lost faith in the action genre and haven't seen an action film on screen in a while. Secondly Vin Diesel doesn't really appeal to me as an actor. Yet more like a guy that attracts the girls to the cinemas, while the girls Ooooh and Ahhhh at his biceps, triceps and abs. The introduction starts off with action, thats a pretty good way to start an action film isn't it?? With some action.One thing that i really DEMAND in a lot of films is realism. Most action films are MUCH MORE than a stone throw away from reality. XXX doesn't differ, infact this goes the extra mile in terms of UNrealism. The Art Of War (Wesley Snipes) was so unrealistic, that i dropped it automatically as an action film. XXX wasn't Action packed, yet it was adequate. The acting was acceptable, I liked the female accomplice in the movie. The accents were a nice touch, as the film was shot in the lovely city of Prague. The soundtrack, although suiting to the film wasn't my style. Some great special effects were also used in the film, the Avalanche scene being one of the greatest.Without giving too much away i would really reccomend you watch XXX, the film has such a great aura, although terribly unrealistic, there are many things which FORCE you to like the film. The Cinematography was magical, the writing was good, Sound effects were top notch. One must give in to the Extreme Excitement of XXX.ACTING Acceptable. Vin Diesel never really Acted. He always seems to be the same character (Fast And the Furious). The other cast acted fairly enough, i liked Jelena. She was probably the best of all in the film, not to mention Samuel L. Jackson who adds a few laughs to the film. Nothing to go on about, i doubt any Oscars will be won.ACTORS An adequate selection of actors. The film was shot in Prague, Czech Republic. So we didn't exactly see a lot of famous faces. Yet most notably was Vin Diesel and Samuel L. Jackson who play their characters pretty well.SCRIPT The script was fine.The lines sometimes are Corny, yet they add to the whole fun of the movie. The plot though wasn't very well....interesting. I mean the characters were in depth, and interesting yet the whole idea of poisioning a medievil city with Deadly gas was way too Batman for me. Never the less the script was good, yet far from flawless.CINEMA Cinematography was excellent. Some of the best i have seen truly. From the sights and sounds of Prague, to the clubs, to alpine regions and villages. It's all beautifully shot, i couldn't have asked for any better, honestly some of the best cinematography, much better than any Bond film in terms of Cinema.ACTION As i said, the film wasn't Action Packed. It was mediocore on levels of violence and blood. I wouldn't think of comparing this to other hardcore action films. It was quiet clean, yet still was loads of fun. The Intro was fine, and Vin Diesel had some intense situations. I really enjoyed the Sky Diving, Snow Boarding and Motorbike riding, lots of XXXtreme Sports.MUSIC/SOUND The music went well with the medieval atmosphere yet it wasn't my style. Very heavy metal. The sound and effects on the other hand were top notch, it really added to the suspense. The explosions were wild. Action films always SOUND Good, yet this sounded better than most. I was happy.OVERALL I would rather watch this than any 007 film. The movie is actually quiet addictive. It's fast paced, loads of fun and REALLY unrealstic. Yet dont let that get you down, it is still a very enjoying film to watch, it also has great replay value, im sure you can watch this a few times without getting immune. A great flick to watch with a larger ground.*** 1/2  ( out of 5 stars ) "},{"Title":"A short comment regarding expectations in regards to movie reviews.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was very enjoyable for what it was, which is why I rated it very highly.  Have I seen better movies?  Yes.  I believe I have.  For example, in my opinion, nothing is going to touch Sean Connery as James Bond in the spy genre, though I am always open to any challenges.So what was this movie?  It was a chance for a newer generation to relate to the spy genre.  Espionage movies were very big in the James Bond heyday, but most of the younger generation just doesn't catch the whole ambiance of the James Bond movie.  (Pierce Brosnan makes a great James Bond, of course, but the actor is not the point...the character is.)  I've actually heard people ask what a martini is.  Nothing wrong with that, but XXX just sort of brought it down to a new level, and an enjoyable one...Vin Diesel really brings his charisma into this movie full-force, and makes a very believable scuzz bag.  )  This movie is an excellent flick, and if you've not watched it yet, I highly recommend it!  (May not be suitable for younger children, but my mother-in-law enjoyed it, so it's probably pretty harmless.)  )  -C "},{"Title":"James Bond watch out","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think this is definitly a awesome movie.  If you like James Bond, you will like this.  It is filled with action packed scenes almost every minute of the movie and not to mention the stunning women in it.  it is fun for all genders. "},{"Title":"good review","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  TripleX (XXX) is an awesome movie, it has lots of non-stop action.I saw this movie twice. The first time was great, the second time was even better.It is worth seeing when it comes out on DVD. The book is as good as the movie. "},{"Title":"'Raiders' of 2002","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie reminded me of the format Raiders of the Lost Ark ... an fellow that doesn't really know what he's getting into keeps 'figuring it out as he goes along' and getting all the right answers through a maze of adventure.In truth, this is Indiana Jones on a James Bond mission through the X-Games. If you're going to just be distracted with adventure, explosions, and special effects, then this is a good choice. If you're going for good acting, a good script, or something you'll see again come golden trophy time, then you'd be gravely disappointed here. "},{"Title":"enjoyably inane spy film","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pity poor Prague.  First it gets hammered by a flood of historic proportions this summer &#150; and now this potential annihilation by a submarine carrying biological weapons   It may make all those people who live there start to wonder if, perhaps, they did something to make the Man Upstairs turn against them. `XXX' is a spy film for the new millennium.  Sure, it utilizes all the conventions of the genre that have been in place since James Bond made his cinematic debut back in `Dr. No' forty long years ago  international intrigue, fantastic technological gadgetry, a generous helping of sardonic humor, beautiful women (who are, more often than not, really double agents), and, of course, a hero in whose capable hands rests the fate of the entire free (and even not so free) world.  The difference here is that this protagonist is no cocktail-sipping sophisticate like Bond, but rather a lower class, rough-and-tumble, antisocial troublemaker who would rather throw expensive cars off bridges than risk his life for God and country.  That very attitude of devil-may-care devilry makes him the prime candidate for the task of undercover infiltration that the CIA needs done at the moment &#150; or so our hero, known as XXX, is told by Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) who recruits the prison-and-hell-bound ruffian to serve as a mole in a nefarious, underground organization centered in the Czech Republic.Actually, for all its obeisance to the spy-movie formula, `XXX' turns out to be quite a fun, rollicking good action film, provided one goes along with the nonsense and doesn't expect too much from it.   It is certainly miles above this summer's earlier spy flick, `Bad Company,' which utilized much of the same plotting and even featured Prague as the backdrop for some of its action as well.  In this case, however, the filmmakers have a star worthy of his buildup.  Vin Diesel may not always be able to deliver his lines in a way that is 100% convincing (he is particularly inept in the scene where Gibbons is convincing him that he needs to get with the program rather than risk time in prison), but he does emanate a certain charismatic charm, particularly when called upon to deliver some of those sardonic one-liners that are standard issue for a modern action hero figure.`XXX' has a clever opening stretch in which our hero is continually put to sleep with a dart gun and finds himself waking up in strange surroundings &#150; courtesy of his boss who wants to test the man's mettle before sending him out into the world he is being called upon to save.  The last half hour, though utterly preposterous by any measure, manages to get the adrenaline going thanks to first-rate photography and split-second editing.  Dean Semler, the film's cinematographer, deserves special praise for his work on this film.  The movie looks, quite frankly, gorgeous.  Luckily, he was handed for his subject one of the most photogenic cities in the world and, I am happy to say, he does it full justice with his camera. Fast-paced, moderately witty and always lovely to look at, `XXX' promises to be but the first entry in a long-lived and very lucrative new film franchise.      "},{"Title":"Special Effects and Action","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The special and visual effects make this movie interesting enough to pay the entrance fee.  Vin Diesel is not much of an actor, but in this film it did not matter since most of his dialogue was smart-aleck one-liners.  I liked the female lead, Asia Argento.  She was a visual treat and did her acting job quite well. Bullets, fires, explosions and extreme stunts abound. You probably won't be disappointed, but it will not be very high on your list of  favorite action films.  "},{"Title":"Has great special effects and stunts!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First, I will say that I consider myself a Vin Diesel fan, but not his biggest fan or anything. I liked him in the Fast and the Furious, but I liked the cars even more. He does a very good job in this movie at playing the bad cop, and I like that role. The special effects and explosions and such were awesome, and probably took a lot of work and time to perfect. The stunts, though most of them are almost physically impossible, were well choreographed and came out looking great. True to form, there are some awesome cars in this movie too, which kept me hooked. I would recommend this to fans of action films and fast cars, because you will find lots of both in this movie. "}{"Title":"You can't miss this movie!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow! What a great movie! I just saw it today. It was the best two and a half hours I ever spent in the movie theater. I am not one of those BIG Vin Diesel fan but now I am! If you like action movies you cannot miss this movie..... its the best! "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Action","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Nice to see Hollywood hasn't lost it's touch. Near the end of a summer marked with disappointing action flicks (`Bad Company,' `Reign Of Fire') along comes Vin Diesel (`The Fast and the Furious') to save the day.Diesel brings a rebellious yet easy-going charm to lead character Xander Cage, known to his friends as XxX. After he almost gets busted for a stunt involving grand theft auto, reckless endangerment, and destruction of property, Xander is recruited by the CIA. Yes, you heard right. Seems the CIA has a database of scumbag civilians ready to be recruited and trained at the touch of a button. Believability is not what this movie is about. What it is about his big, drawn-out action sequences, hard rock music and Vin Diesel tossing off clever one-liners like a tattooed James Bond.If there's one nit-pick, it's that in the end, `XxX' feels like more of a 2-hour long action sequence than it does an actual movie. But these action sequences are so well handled that the lack of dialogue actually works in favor of the script. Best of all, the ending leaves the door wide open for a sequel, which we will no doubt get next year.Let's hope this successful formula can be kept up second time around. Thrilling without being scary and intense without being necessarily involving, `XxX' finally succeeds in giving us a summer movie worthy of the genre.(***/****) "},{"Title":"James Bond who...?","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently saw XXX and was blown away by it! Vin Diesel is amazing in this action-packed film about the Russian rebel world. What also apealed to me was the fact that it was set in Prague and not the usual New York or London. James Bond cowers in the shadow of xXx! Deffinetly a must-see movie.  "},{"Title":"The next Sly or Arnold ..... ??","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's entirely possible. Vin Diesel has the biceps and, more importantly, the attitude to be the next really big action hero. In this movie he shows his stuff by portraying a new kind of tough guy, a Gen X rebel who's into anarchy and extreme sports and who can only be brought under control (and barely at that) by someone who's just as tough and has the benefit of far more experience. That someone is Samuel L Jackson, one of the few current major stars with the presence to pull off his role of a top secret NSA agent whose job it is to recruit talented scumbags and get them to work as spies. The tension between these two characters is terrific, and adds greatly to the fun of this movie. The plot of XXX is pretty basic, which is how it should be, since we don't want unnecessary complexity to get in the way of the action, stunts, and dialog. Once he's been recruited, Diesel's character, nicknamed `XXX' in honor of one of his tattoos, heads to Prague to infiltrate a group of, well, for lack of a better term, neo-fascist heavy metal anarchists with a secret plot to bring down governments across the entire planet using a sub to distribute some sort of deadly poison. This premise is, like most action movie plots, entirely ridiculous, but who cares? What makes this film work are the same ingredients that made Stallone and Schwarzenegger worldwide mega-stars, namely, great stunts, non stop high adrenalin energy, and a star who has just the right set of qualities, a combination of attitude, coolness under pressure, and a good sense of humor. Zingy one-liners delivered with just the right tone are, of course, de rigueur. The bottom line is that Diesel delivers the goods on all counts. This movie works for one simple reason &#150; its star is the real deal, a guy with the self-confidence to take what could have been a hokey piece of schlock and turned it into a blockbuster. If Vin Diesel stays smart and focused, he could quite possibly find himself at the start of a long career that may rival the two abovementioned gentlemen.  8/10  "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel's Star is rising","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  For an action flick, it delivers the goods. Plenty of motion and excitement from start to finish. XXX is basically Generation X meets James Bond rolled into one. From Pitch Black to The Fast and the Furious to XXX, Vin Diesel has set the stage to be the next Action Hero. Move over Arnold and Sly, there's a new kid in town.I really wanted to give this film a rating of 8 in the genre of action film but the database doesnt separate between genres as such. I gave other films such as As good as it gets and Pulp Fiction a rating of 8 and overall XXX doesnt measure up to those standards (It's like eating the best cotton candy you ever had in your life, you might rate it a 10 but its STILL just cotton candy)for these reasons, and wanting to preserve the overall integrity of the database rating system i gave XXX7 of out 10 stars  "},{"Title":"This film is an action riot!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I gave this film 8 out of 10 simply because it was fun.Logic was flawed (out-racing an avalanche on a snowboard!?) and the effects were flawed in places, but this movie was fast, furious and fun. Everything I expected from it.Diesel is a sexy action hero for the Millennium and really made this film enjoyable by not taking his role TOO seriously.Cheers. "},{"Title":"Diesel Powered Spy Flick","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As an avid fan of the up and coming actor Vin Diesel I was totally stoked to see his follow-up to The Fast and the Furious. I was extremely pleased. I felt the plot was pretty good, typical of most spy flicks but felt it was rushed at some points and jumped around a lot. I enjoyed the actors' characters and felt they all did a good job portraying them. However, the writing seemed to be lacking something. Some of the humorous lines weren't funny and a bit over used, in my opinion, if another actor had portrayed X some of the lines would not have went over at all. I felt Vin played this character very well and it was very believable to watch him in many of the movie's action scenes. I didn't feel overwhelmed by computer generated action either which was nice. Most of the stunts/scenes are quite believable.I think most people will enjoy this movie as long as they go in expecting an action flick, not some thought-provoking, deeply moving film. It's not the best movie ever made but it can definitely hang with the big boys of the Bond series and spy genre. I feel this is a good performance from Vin (he keeps getting better and better) and I can't wait for his next film, Knockaround Guys. "},{"Title":"loud and action packed!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The summary pretty much says it all. I truly enjoyed this movie for what it was. An action-packed action movie. Vin was good - especially to look at. His lines were not the best, but still a decent action-hero.If you like action, check it out. "},{"Title":"Great slam-bang Saturday matinee popcorn fun!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is what truly entertaining Saturday matinees were once all about!  It has a hero, a bad guy, a love interest, and more action than you could wish for.  In fact, it has more action than the last 2 James Bond movies combined, while actually paying homage to the James Bond genre, which having been around now in movies for 40 years was way, way overdue to be given a makeover for the 21st century and handed over to a younger generation.  Yes, there are several critics who call the plot of this movie dumb -- they either conveniently forgot that a great many matinee action movies aren't to be watched for intellectual forays into what lurks in men's hearts and souls (these movies are made to be fun like an amusement park ride), or they never went to many Saturday matinees when they were younger.  And the plot in this movie isn't any worse than any James Bond movie script, period.   The icing on this cake (yes it's all eye candy, and I just couldn't get enough) is that unlike dozens of other fantasy/action flicks, the actors are all good in this one -- and especially unlike some James Bond movies, the main female love/spy interest is not played dumb.  Sure the stunts are exaggerated and over-the-top; do not see this movie if you want something reality-based.  But do see it if you want adrenalin-filled movie fun.   "},{"Title":"Great Tribute to Bond","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am still a really big fan of the James Bond film series. However, as times are changing the highly educated, high society and gadget based films are losing their appeal. XXX is the next the kind of spy that you can identify with. The average Joe that gets tossed into the thick of things. In today's time we need a basic working class hero that hard working people can identify with. We need our HEROS.XXX is a excellent movie, yes there are some hole in the story but hey this is a hollywood movie after all. The action sequences are excellent, although I expect more fight scenes and blow-em-up action sequences. But it definately did not disappoint.After seeing Vin Diesel in The Fast and The Furious I really enjoyed his down to earth acting style and he is just perfect in this part. Not to give away the ending of the movie but XXX is definatly geared towards a sequel. I look forward to seeing it. "}{"Title":"TRUE SUMMER FILM","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Long gone have the days of summer films been. Remember those? Every year there was the one film during the summertime that everybody and I mean EVERYBODY went to see. Jurrassic Park? Armageddon? Mission Impossible 2? We haven't had one in years but in xXx, the latest installment from Rob Cohen (helmer of Fast and the Furious) and Vin Diesel (Fast and the Furious, Pitch Black), it's back and in a big way. I admit I initially had my reservations but left the theater highly impressed. NON STOP ACTION, WITTY DIALOGUE (A script far superior than FAST AND THE FURIOUS, which really wasn't that bad itself), and a killer soundtrack... This has been one of the few movies I've seen recently worth it's price of admission. If you're a fan of Diesel's or just pure action, give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"TRUE SUMMER FILM","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Long gone have the days of summer films been. Remember those? Every year there was the one film during the summertime that everybody and I mean EVERYBODY went to see. Jurrassic Park? Armageddon? Mission Impossible 2? We haven't had one in years but in xXx, the latest installment from Rob Cohen (helmer of Fast and the Furious) and Vin Diesel (Fast and the Furious, Pitch Black), it's back and in a big way. I admit I initially had my reservations but left the theater highly impressed. NON STOP ACTION, WITTY DIALOGUE (A script far superior than FAST AND THE FURIOUS, which really wasn't that bad itself), and a killer soundtrack... This has been one of the few movies I've seen recently worth it's price of admission. If you're a fan of Diesel's or just pure action, give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, this is a movie where you NEVER want to leave. Vin Diesel did a wonderful act in it that will glue you to your chair, except for that really stupid line that shouldn't have been there What I do for my country... Otherwise, the action was pretty good. This is a good movie--Believe me!! "},{"Title":"The best action flick!(beside The matrix and T2)","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  (MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS)XXX is really,really good!The acting is a bit bad but other then that it is a action packed thrill ride!When i saw this movies trailers i did not think that it would be this good.So i do recommend this film to all the action lovers out there!XXX is about a man named Xander Cage or XXX that only wants to cause trouble and stare fear in the eye.Then a agent named Augustus Gibbons gives him 2 options go to jail or go on a undercover mission.Later They tell him that the deal is off and he must go home...but that does not stop him!This movie is a non stop,action packed,edge of your seat thrill ride that will leave you breathless.9/10 stars "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel rocks!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is my new favorite Vin Diesel movie. He is both hot and talented. I like Asia Argento also. I saw this at the movie theater and it was wonderful. I liked the action that was constant throughout the whole flick. Vin Diesel really shines in this movie. Move over Arnold, Vin has arrived!!! "},{"Title":"A Must See!!!!!!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I usually cannot stand action movies, but I was looking forward to XXX since I had really enjoyed The Fast and the Furious. I can say that XXX is definitely a great movie, however you need to go into it knowing that the acting is no going to be worth an Oscar and that there are going to be some cheesey one-liners. With that said, XXX is very entertaining. The thing that really made me love this movie was the fact that it was set in Prague, which is a fascinating city that has a unique culture.XXX is a must see, I saw it twice and enjoyed every minute of it, especially Rammstein - what a performance, I wish I could've been at that concert (just a side note, the Rammstein song on the soundtrack is absolutely amazing, one of my favs along with Trüffelschwein)!! "},{"Title":"Best FX","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't know what that other guy was talking about.  The avalanche scene is the key reason I want to see this on my home system.  This is definitely America's answer to Bond.  I want to see a series of this movie.  Ten years from now I want to see previews for XXX 9! "},{"Title":"What James Bond used to be","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anyone who went to this movie and expected an Oscar performance and story was a fool. This movie was exactly what is needed to be. It is an action film with an American Bond. If the studio doesn't turn this into a series they are fools. Look at what this kind of movie did for the Bond franchise. See it and enjoy it! "},{"Title":"XXX is for the 3rd man","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great movie, but I noticed some reminders of the 3rd man, the great spy before James Bond.  Especially the zither music in the early scenes of Eastern Europe.  Great special effects.  Maybe the acting can be criticized, but this is a FUN movie, not an artsy one. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!!!!!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not really a big action fan.But I loved the movie.There was action,romance,a pretty good plot,hot guys,awesome music,and more. I didn't just like it because Vin Deisel was in it because I didn't even know he was in it untill I saw it.And even then I didn't even know who he was untill my cousin told me who he was.The movie was great and I've seen it three times since my first time.The only thing that I didn't like was one part.(Parts of the movie included*)He was on the boat and the thing was about to come out and he sort of just sat there untill it was about to eject the poison.The rest of the movie he has always DONE something,instead of just sit there.And if he was just thinking about what he was going to do that's would be fine but he wasn't he just sat there.But the rest of the movie was great.I recommend it to ANYONE.I don't like action-packed thrillers but I loved this one.And even if you HATE action you'll love Vin Deisel.GO AND SEE IT!!!!!!I promise you you won't be mad that you had to pay 10.00 to see it.GO!!!! ' "}{"Title":"Diesel Takes Next Step To Becoming Action Hero","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After hearing that Vin Diesel would be doing a Xtreme style James Bond secret agent film, I was ecstatic. I feel that Vin Diesel has the charisma, cockiness, charm and acting ability to become the next Arnold Schwarzenegger. We all know that Arnold isn't the greatest actor in the world, so doing action movies like Total Recall, T2, True Lies & Conan should be a snap for Vin. Everyone is saying that Vin was a huge hit in The Fast in the Furious, but failed to realize that he was great in Pitch Black. I thought his acting ability in that film really paved the way for TF&TF & XXX. True..Saving Private Ryan was a great role for him too, but that was more of a cameo then anything else. As for XXX, its definitely a great movie to see. I think the writing was pretty horrible though. The plot of the movie is kind of lame, but the stunts and the chemistry between Xander & Yelena really save this movie. I can't say enough about the incredible stunts. The avalanche scene was spectacular and longer then I would have thought. The motorcycles stunts were also very well filmed. Of course these stunts were truly unrealistic. They look great, but in real life he'd be dead.  The interaction between Xander and Yelena were pretty good, but someone needs to teach Vin how to do on screen kissing. Every time he kissed Yelena the people in the theater laughed. The other casts were pretty much fillers and didn't add anything to the film. Even the evil Yorgi didn't seem that menacing to me. He was more menacing as Borias on Xena Warrior Princess.Overall the movie is worth a viewing; on the BIG screen. Waiting for this movie to come out on DVD won't be the same. Unless you have a projection machine with a killer sound system, your better off seeing this at the movies. The explosions and sound effects are wonderful in Dolby Digital Surround. Let's hope that the sequel will spend more time on the script, dialogue and plot, then on the stunts. A few twist and a little bit of intrigue would be nice.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"xXx is James Bond meets extreme sports...action-packed, fun movie","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is an extreme and hell of a ride movie, and not only guys can check this one out. Vin Diesel is not that great of an actor, but he packs enough punch in this movie to make him just right. Samuel L. Jackson is pretty much useless in the movie. The cameos from Eve and Tony Hawke don't really make the movie better of anything. The real joy you'll get when you watch the movie is the fast cars, the hot chick (does anybody know her name?), and just the raw action. I have to say that it doesn't quite match up to James Bond...just because it lacks the originality that JB did and it has some parts that are just plain stupid. But xXx is still a great movie...i give it 3 1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Best action movie I've seen in years!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one excellent action movie! The only action movie I've seen in recent memory as good as this is the more plot-driven The Bourne Identity. As for the plot of XXX, I'm not sure I could accurately explain it, but in movies of this type the plot is usually secondary. There are a whole lot of explosions, gunplay, Bondian gadgets(band-aids wired with explosives), and high-tech weaponry. Much of the movie is set in the Czech Republic. The best scene is one in which Xander Cage(Vin Diesel) tosses a couple of explosives over his shoulder in a very snowy mountain range, deliberately causing an avalanche to thwart the villains chasing him while he snowboards away. I was just captivated!However, no movie is without problems. For one thing I didn't see The Fast and the Furious, but based on this picture, Diesel can't act at all, it was just painfully bad. The dialogue was also awfully corny. Even the usually clever one-liners (often uttered after defeating a villain) fell flat.The two above minor flaws are what lowers this movie from a 10 to a 9. Keep an eye out for brief appearances by rapper Eve, skateboarder Tony Hawk, and German techno/heavy metal group Rammstien, who contribute a song to the typical high-octane action-movie soundtrack. If you love action movies(and don't mind bad acting), you MUST see this one.      "},{"Title":"Bond 007 Rip Off for the Blue Collar Set","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Two guys sitting around a pool in Los AngelesLet's replace the beluga and martinis with pretzels and beer.Let's replace the Union Jack parachute with Old Glory. Let's replace the Aston Martin with a Pontiac Let's replace the Bond Girl with a bondage mistress. Let's replace Q with a geek who just finished re-assembling a VW in the frat house living room. Let's replace stolen nuclear device with stolen nerve gas device Let's take out the style, wit, and humor, and replace it with (your impression here).The fact is that no one, and I mean no one, has yet succeeded in adequately replacing/displacing/improving/copying the Bond genre.  No one has and I don't think anyone ever will.  Stop trying.  Go get your own genre.  Let's face it.  Take out the special effects and this film is strictly direct-to-video.I give this movie a 6 for the following reasongreat special effects and stuntsI would have given the film an 8 for special effects but there were two problemsThe nerve gas boat. The front of the nerve gas boat looked like a washing machine.  Lose the nerve gas boat.The car.  The Q replacement thinks that souping up a car means adding a bunch of new dials to the dashboard.  And really guys, we all know that the GTO handling stunk and its sole purpose was to give high school football jocks a big back seat. "},{"Title":"Better then Bond but fails to be different","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel quickly became the next big action star after racing street cars in the sleeper hit of summer 2001 called The Fast & the Furious. The movie had a surprisingly $40 million opening weekend and had legs that took the $38 million budgeted film to $140 million before the summer season ended. No doubt this impacted Vin Diesel's career. Diesel now returns to the action genre along with the director of The Fast & the Furious, Rob Cohen, to bring a 21st Century twist to the aging James Bond series. Will teenagers flock to this film like The Fast & the Furious or will this be Diesel's first major budget flop?The story goes that Xander Cage, played by Vin Diesel, is a man who lives on the edge performing death defying stunts like stealing cars, flying them off a bridge and then parachuting from the car to safety. Well, this time he has finely been caught by NSA Agent Gibbons, played by Samuel L. Jackson, who recruits him to be an undercover agent for the United States. If he does this then his criminal record will be wiped clean and he is free to go. Xander xXx Cage travels to Czechoslovakia to involvtrate the group known as Anarchy 99. As he digs deeper and deeper into the organization, he soon learns that millions of lives are on the line and he is the only one that can stop them. The story, much like those of the tired James Bond series, is moderately done though the film does not avoid the predictability that pragues the James Bond films. It has the typical sexy woman who starts off as the villain but is more then she seems. They also have the predictable one liners that don't do much to justify the character of Xander Cage for me. The story moves along pretty well throwing an action sequence here and there when the plot begins to slow down in any which way.Vin Diesel is xXx. He has the look of he was made for this role which plays extremly well during the movie especially during the action sequences. I would love to see Vin Diesel in more of these roles but wonder if he will be tight casted and not be able to expand into dramatic or comedic roles in the near future if he has the desire to. Samuel L. Jackson is okay as Agent Gibbons. He doesn't really stand out and not to mention his role is nothing more then a cameo. We don't go into depth with his character not that it matters with the story but it would help develop his character's purpose in the movie. Asia Argento is well received as Yelena. She plays the typical Bond, or is now xXx, girl who starts off as a villain but is more then she seems. Her role is nothing more then we have seen in the past, so I don't blame her acting ability for the lack of new excitement to her character.Overall, xXx succeeds at bringing new excitement to the spy series but does nothing new in the story line area. Most of the stuff in xXx's story has been done here and there thoughout every James Bond film and there should be something more exciting then what is presented to us. The action sequence are very well done except for the avalanche scene. The only problem I had with that scene was that you could totally tell that Vin Diesel was CGI and the graphics for the human character should have been done better. The loud metal rock music may be appealing to some teens but it just seemed too much for my taste in this movie. Vin Diesel does a good job and should do well in action genre films. I would suggest that he get into other genres before he is tight-casted but that is his decision on where he wants to go with career. Hopefully xXx2 will present something different from the typical James Bond film and not follow in its predicessor's steps.My Rating ***1/2 out of 5   "},{"Title":"Mindless, popcorn-munching fun","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let's face it, no one is going to see XXX to be enlightened or to have their philosophy broadened.  This is a popcorn movie, one that demands little from the audience except to sit back and suspend a lot of disbelief.Vin Diesel is fabulous as the eponymous, newly-minted secret agent who is (oddly enough for a secret agent) world famous.  How he gets to be an agent is pretty entertaining; fat ankles and exploding cocaine fields get him through his tests.  These are conducted by Samuel L. Jackson, who is on hand to 'supervise' his newest employee.  Yeah, right -- good luck.  Anyway, Diesel owns this film, absolutely grabbing you by the lapels and dragging you along for the ride with his athleticism and his Bronx charm.  Maybe major stars have exploded onto the scene in better vehicles, but make no mistake, Diesel has arrived.  Keep your expectations low and your eyes wide open, and you will have a tough time finding a more fun way to pass a couple of summer hours in a theater.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really loved this movie and have seen it three times. I think this was a perfect movie for Vin Diesel and I think that he played his character well. If you're a fan of Action/Adventure films, then I know you will enjoy this movie. I like the plotline and think the action and stunt scenes were excellent. I was glad that we got to know a bit about the characters, but I would've like to know about more about Samuel L. Jackson's character. I hope that they have a sequel for this movie, cuz I would go and definately see it. The soundtrack for this film was great too. "},{"Title":"decent film!!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX wasn't a bad film.  it was pretty good!  vin isn't in his acting prime here but the action pretty much compensated for that.  the movie was a little predictable but it's all good!  this type of movie is usually what is expected of guys to go see but surprisingly there were 5 times as many girls as guys in the theatre and that's no exaggeration!!  the soundtrack is killer!  "},{"Title":"Suspend Disbelief and Enjoy!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Movie was very 007, but if you enjoy a good action flick that's very easy to figure out, then this is the movie for you.  Take a date, Vin's performance is as good as Fast and Furious, but those scenes with his shirt of is sure to get your women going! So sit back grab some popcorn and enjoy.Just remember not to many people would even dare doing some of the crazy ass stuff X pulls off, so Suspend your Disbelief! Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Spy Thriller meets Extreme sports","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was amazing. To begin with the sound track was so awesome that I wanted to go by the compact disc as soon as I got out of the cinema. The special effects were top of the line. The avalanche scene was extremely breath taking and so was the Colombia scene with the dirt bike. The acting (sometimes scene as corny) was a perfect way to show Zander's attitude with authority in the movie. I think this movie deserves a 8. "}{"Title":"Use the bathroom BEFORE the movie starts !!!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great action sequences, obviously far fetched, but it's a movie - WHO CARES !!! Great stunt work and fx, thought the final boat chase scene was a little weak, over all, great movie. A must own when released on DVD !!! "},{"Title":"We're in the Xander Zone!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Unbelievable, extremely loud, yet funny and exciting, I urge you not to miss XXX while it's showing on the big movie screens, which is where it is especially designed to be fully appreciated. Vin Diesel, who portrays the iconoclastic Xander Cage, is truly a 21st-century secret agent, complete with smart-alecky witticisms, machismo, Generation X/Y swagger, and surprising sensitivity.  I don't care what the critics say, this is one impressive flick - photographed by Oscar winner Dean Semler (Dances With Wolves), I was was pleasantly surprised by the overall craftsmanship this work displays.  Yes, the stunt work is over-the-top, but it's all fast-paced and totally absorbing.  I really forgot about my everyday problems as I got swept away by the action and adventure led by Messrs. Diesel and Samuel L. Jackson.  Like the incredible avalanche set piece, you too will be overwhelmed by the power of XXX, and if you're not careful, you'll find yourself forever in the Xander Zone! Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"good ride","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is what I call a good action movie, and I really enjoyed the stunts (many or most of them performed by Diesel himself), but i think the plot was a bit weak around the edges. I mean heres Xander who is recruited by a secretive organization to save the world. Then there is Yorgi who is the evil boss of this one, determined on reaching a specific goal, no matter what it takes. The acting is good, but not particularly of note; mostly I went to see this film because of the extreme sports involved and because I wanted to see a good action flick.So to finish off, I believe that XXX was created so (and I'm not trying to nationalize here or anything) that America would have there own secret agent. Anyways, good movie, great action, I give it two thumbs up and 8 out of 10. GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Xcellent Xciting Xtrodinary Film Journey!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Already a huge fan of Vin Diesel I was biased going into the theater, however, this movie was nothing short of brilliant. It was action packed from start to finish. Vin plays a rebel named Xander. He is sexy and easily lovable at the same time. His style and attitude exude sex appeal and danger. He is summoned by Samuel L. Jacksons character to find out information from an Xtremely dangerous group located in Prague. He uses his street smarts and brilliant physical strength to essentially save the world. It is the inbetween that will have you gripping your seat, chuckling and clutching your heart. His stunts are amazing and as an extra bonus the soundtrack is phenomenal. You will not be disappointed with this film. The gals will love seeing Vin performing dangerous, heart stopping stunts but they will love the fact that underneath his tattoo's and rough exterior is a soft hearted man that wants to do the right thing. The fellas will enjoy the stunts, fast cars, sexy women and neat gadgets that all come along with this movie. XXX is it. The movie of the year with the actor of the year! Vin should be beaming with pride over this one!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Diesel is a god!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't know how I would feel about this movie if anyone except Vin Diesel played Xander Cage, but with him, it is solid gold!  I don't know, can't tell, or don't care if Diesel is a wonderful actor, but he plays this role like he was born to do it!  (Nevermind that I could just stare at him alone for 2 hours!)  The movie itself is a fast-paced, energetic action flick geared more towards teen-aged boys fresh from their X-boxes and Playstations, but as an adult woman, it was very enjoyable nonetheless!  I would recommend it to anyone who wanted to forget about their lives and worries for a little while and be absorbed in something that seems sometimes unreal, but very entertaining and fun over-all. "},{"Title":"The Anti-Bond has risen, and takes us on a fun filled wild adventure","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anyone looking for a deep plot should look elsewhere, but if you're looking for a fun filled, adrenaline pumping adventure look no further.XXX delivers the goods.  The Anarchy/destroy the world plot rings of Dr, Evil but Vin Diesel's action sequences stand out as among the best special effects I have seen. It's just plain FUN!  "},{"Title":"James Bond of the New Millennium?","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is currently 130 in the AM and I am so excited about seeing the movie Triple X that I needed an outlet to comment!  What a ride this movie turned out to be.  I had heard a lot of hype but knowing the quality of a Vin Diesel film, this movie was definitely up to par.  There's just something about his antihero that is so compelling - or is that his physique?  I digress.  What a wonderful opportunity to see, what my elders' call, an action film geared towards my generation.  I found that in the last James Bond movie there were all of the classic elements of a Bond film but there was just something missing.  I could not put my finger on it - that was until now.That key, missing element was extreme sports.  I mean let's face it, 007 is an older guy.  He looks awesome in a tux - a towel too.  His British accent and great smile sends shivers down many 'a civilized women's spine.  Yet, he's old and somewhat tame.  Vin Diesel roars on the scene with more action, quick wit, good looks and butt-kickin' than any one man should be allowed on film!  He completely dominates this movie.  And it's delicious - right down to his low-ridin' long john's!Okay, all the girlie stuff aside, the film was sound.  The story had no visible main-plot holes, it wasn't bogged down with cross-plot details, and it let up on the action a fraction of a second before you thought your head would explode.  I unfortunately had a rather tame Monday night crowd, but I suspect that weekend crowds might applaud - or at least let a few SWEETs or NU'UHs loose here and there.  This film gives you just enough sex and violence to be believable (if a modern Bond could ever be considered real) - but its edited so expertly as to come off as classy.  I honestly, hope that this will turn into a series.  After all, if Austin Powers can go for thirds, Zander is definitely due for seconds! "},{"Title":"Non-stop fun","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Full of women in positive and powerful roles, an anti-smoking message and not a lot of cursing-this movie fit my preferences in a movie nicely. Along with that is non-stop action, extreme sports, fun cameos, and excellent music-I liked this movie a whole lot. Rating of PG-13 seems appropriate. Worth full-ticket price. "},{"Title":"PEOPLE PLEASE RELAX and DREAM AGAIN","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm 31 and into Extreme Sports.  I grew up on star-trak; twillight zone and James Bond ohh yeah and Mission impossible.  I work in a law firm and would be considered by most very conservative.  However I am a realist and we all know this is make believe so go see this movie with that intention.  Too many people are overanalyzing the movie and expecting a beautiful mind NO PEOPLE ITS A RELEASE MOVIE  Go sit back and let the kid in you OUT TO PLAY AND DREAM AGAIN.  People talk about the stunts being over the top well my only suggestion is to sit down and watch the X-Games when they come on. All of the stunts on the moto-bike are well within reason (if you have watched X-Games you would see they didn't go as extreme as they could have) Now yes the avalanche scene is a bit .... okay impossible, but remember ITS A RELEASE MOVIE go with it laugh, cringe, shout whatever just enjoy yourself, Trust me the realization of bills, real terrorism, a failing economy and whatever else is going on will be around to keep you grounded once the movie is over.  All I can say is If you like POWER; FAST CARS; CUTE WOMEN (THEY ARE NOT SUPER MODELS) AND THE RUSH OF EXTREME SPORTS IT'S A GREAT WAY TO UNWIND.  That's it!!  It's just GOOD, CLEAN, FUN.  "},{"Title":"A good action movie.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to go see this movie and i'll admit I wasn't expecting much, but it is was pretty decent. The story line wasnt the greatest, but if u want to go see a fun movie i would advice u to go see this.Vin Diesel does a decent performance.The actions scenes in this movie are sweet. But if u are one of those people who have to have the perfect story and everything has to make sense, I would advise u to just stay at home and dont waste your money "}{"Title":"Great Action","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin found his movie...if there is a XXX-2 he will go big.  Great action, story was fair, and this is definitely a guy movie.  I get tired of the profanity.  Aren't they smart enough to come up with some better dialog? "},{"Title":"007 The Next Generation","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Think Bond on 'roids where speed freaks, boarders & all-round freedom trippers unite.  If you can't get into the major tunes in the soundtrack, you'd be wasting your time if you saw this puppy.And PG-13 is definitely a good rating for this one too.  Aside from an extended dance routine I'd have been completely comfortable in having brought my 9 and 10 year old daughters.  The violence is almost as benign as the A-team but there was a bit too much portrayal of women as objects. "},{"Title":"Lotsa Bond Action -- But None of the Style","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some of the hype I saw before going to see this movie said Sony was looking to create a franchise player like James Bond -- i.e. a vehicle for many similar movies.  To that end, they have failed.  The possibilities, like much of the plot and development of character is far too thin.  A tattooed, extreme game player with as coarse a persona as James Bond's is smooth seems very limiting.  What will he face next?  Nuclear-capable skateboarders or BMXers, drug peddling neo-Nazi bikers. I can't see him filling the man of the world role necessary to fill movie houses 25 times like Bond has. On the other hand, the special effects and general action kept my son and I sufficiently entertained.  Neither of us regret going, but, given the choice, neither of us would have chosen it over the next Bond film. "},{"Title":"Action-Packed","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  the summary tells all.  this movie is totally action-packed from beginning to end...it's fast and it's furious!  you want action?  this is the movie for you!  hot guys, sexy girls, and yet again, fast cars!  hold on to your seats for this one, it's gonna be a bumpy ride! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I usually dislike action movies, but I loved XXX!!!! I liked Vin Diesel before, but now I'm a real fan.  Action packed. Jaw dropping stunts. A hint of romance! What more can you ask for?! A must-see!! "},{"Title":"Not a classic but very enjoyable","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in to see this movie with my 17 year old son.  I knew going in that it wouldn't be a masterpiece & it didn't disappoint me.  However, I found myself enjoying it. Mr. Diesel will never be a Tom Hanks or even a Michael Meyers but he has presence.  The camera likes him & so do all the teens.  He is definitely a man's man.  Everyone had to admit his is cool & very likeable.  His delivery of dry humor in the one liners doens't work & should be re-thought out.  However, I found myself believing him as a spy. An American spy.  Go to see this movie and just sit back & enjoy the action. "},{"Title":"A job well done","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've managed to convince a friend to see XXX instead of Blue Crush and it was worth it. This movie is the perfect example of a job well done - not artsy, not sophisticated, just well done. Vin Diesel will never win an Oscar but he delivers the goods - the same goes to the support cast. This movie is obviously the set-up to a long franchise designed to replace dear-old-James-Bond who has, unfortunately, run out of steam long time ago. One last quick note, suspend your disbelief at the door before entering the movie house... some twists to the story do not make sense, to say the least.... (unless you believe that the shortest way between two points is a spiralling line that involve the space shuttle and an illuminati plot ;-) In short, this movie delivers a great bang/buck ratio. Oh.... the end credits are oscar worthy... "},{"Title":"Action at it's best","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is clearly one of the best action movies of the summer. The film is full of amazing stunts,action sequences and one-liners. Vin Disel is the new action star of the millenium. XXX is his second franchise following Pitch Black and we have a new action star on our hands in the form of Disel. Can't you see the poster saying Disel on top of the title? Samuel L.Jackson is also good as Gibbons. If you haven't seen this film treat yourself. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is a film that is not meant to be taken seriously...just like James Bond films.  You go into this film expecting to see what you would in a Bond film which is hot cars, hot action, and hot women.  You get that in xXx. Those expecting to see Oscar level acting, plot movement, and character development will be disappointed and shouldn't bother going.This film is for action fans who want to be entertained, period.BTW, I just love the GTO!I gave this an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Third Man music played in background in XXX","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When Cage walked into the club in Prague, you can hear music very similar to Carol Reed's The Third Man. There is even a quick shot of a zither playing the music, the same instrument made famous by The Third Man. Thought that was interesting. The movie though had some great action sequences, but overall, it doesn't take the cake. Even though, this is a must see movie. "}{"Title":"James Bond cranked up to 11.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When you have a formula that seems to work, you stick with it.  Take for example, Coca-Cola.  The format has stayed the same for decades, and has been very successful.  Others try and imitate it, use similar ingredients, maybe even the same measurements, and although they may come close, they JUST don't quite get it exactly the same, and it doesn't taste the same.  But eventually, someone will take that formula, and improve upon it&#133; and no I'm not talking about `New Coke'&#133; but something completely different.Let's look at the basic formula for a typical James Bond type flick&#133; the ingredients being an international spy&#133; a villain with a blatant foreign accent hell-bent on world domination and/or destruction&#133; an array of neat gadgets for our hero, as well as a hot-fast car&#133; and of course, the beautiful woman.  Take those elements and pit the spy into coming into close contact of our villain, wanting to covertly undermine his ploy, but eventually wind up blowing-up everything thing in sight, saving his own neck from capture (as well as the beautiful woman's) while ensuring, at the last minute, that the villains plans are thwarted.XXX is a movie that takes these basic elements, and the basic Bond formula, and cranks the volume on it up to 11. (As if the soundtrack in the opening sequence alone isn't evidence enough of that)  The high-impulse action begins with the opening scene, and doesn't stop until the story is finished.  In fact, the action filled scenes get more intense as the movie rolls on. Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage, an X-Sports athlete whose internet videos have made him an underground star.  Problem is, he takes his extreme-lifestyle too far too often, and is a wanted man.  The NSA needs a man just like &#145;X' (as he prefers to be called) for their lucrative assignment&#133; and so it goes.The story, as I've hinted already, follows a basic Bond formula, but that's not to the films discredit.  It's simply taking a formula, which apparently works very well, and cranks it up a few notches&#133; especially in the action department.Where XXX differs from the Bond movies, is primarily in the main character.  Bond is a sophisticated, well respected, well refined agent, flashing high-class clothes and cars with a certain sophistication.   Xander Cage, on the other hand, is a rebel&#133; the antithesis of a Bond character in almost every way.  He's a bit too sure of himself, a bit cocky, and definitely has an attitude.  This is exactly the type of character needed to pull off an action film of this magnitude.  Someone who lives their life on the edge and as &#145;X' says himself, someone who `lives for this s__t.'XXX has some of the biggest action sequences I've seen in recent years.  One scene in particular could only have been improved if it had been mastered for IMAX presentation.  This is a real thrill ride.  By far the best action film this year and definitely well worth seeing on the big screen.  It will be one I plan on returning to see again this summer for sure.  "},{"Title":"Samual L Jackson steals the show","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spoiler!!!Barre and Washington win awards ha ha; Jackson is 100 times the actor.  He makes this movie, I like the part where he say the 3 X's match three strikes.  Vin Disil, will become a bigger actor, this guy is smart.  Turning down big money for the awful Fast and Furious 2 for this film pumps up his career.  The role is perfect for him and is marketed for the Y gen crowd.  The sticker skateboarding is a crime is a dead give away.  The film is entertaining, and cheesy all in one; you'll see with that boat thing.  Disil will eventually get his big role, which will either involve military or Jail.  Maybe both, a remake of the Dirty Dozen. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Marketing is the key","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first heard about XXX I didn't think much of it.  I had seen the Fast and the furious, and even though I felt it was a great entertainment, it didn't go down as something out of the ordinary in that genre.  But the hype including XXX has been unbelievable, which is either due to extremely successful marketing, or this film being great.  Having seen it, I go for the marketing as being the main reason.  It is true that XXX has everything that action film should have, good one liners, great action sequence, requirements to save the world, some romance and a hero.   XXX is nothing new though, and even though I'm sure Vin Diesel appeals to the younger generation, and has Humphrey Bogart voice, I think we should just appreciate it for what it is.  An over the average, greatly entertaining, popcorn movie.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Move Over James Bond...Hello XXX!!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is the new James Bond! This was the most action packed movie of the summer! Vin Diesel is the man! A great new spy movie that I'm sure will be seen again in sequels in the future! More intense action than the 'Fast and the Furious'! XXX is a true winner! "},{"Title":"A damn good Action Movie","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  (warning..spoilers)XXX was a great action the movie. The stunts were amazing, especially when he drove a vette off the bridge and parachuted out of the car. XXX was action packed and there never was a dull moment. The worst part about the movie was the beginning. The band and music was really weird, especially the guy with the flame thrower mask. The fight scenes were well choreogrpahed, and the weapons could be said to rival that of a James Bond movie. If your looking for a good action flick, go see XXX. "},{"Title":"Mindless Action....But Fun","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't say that I loved or hated xXx, it had it's high points and it's low points.  There were a ton of little things I didn't like about the film, just tiny little things that I would have liked changed.  Other than those little things, the movie was pretty decent, for the most part.The action and stunts in this movie is most definitely an overdose, I couldn't believe how much flashy stuff was in this film.  If you like to see stuff get blown up then you'll surely like this movie.The only major complaint about the movie that I have is the scene where he's in Columbia (or where ever he is) and is riding around on that motorcycle.  He was just flying all over the place with that thing, and no ramps or anything in sight.  That scene kind of bugged me, but it was over fairly soon and the movie went on.As for the story, it was nothing terribly complicated, pretty much your typical bad-guy-wants-to-create-chaos-and-good-guy-has-to-stop-him sort of story .  Lots of cookie-cutter bad guys and what not, but it's all in good fun.In the film's defense though, there were a lot of cool things to see.  Some of the stunts were just phenomenal and a few scenes in particular that just made me grin like an idiot because I liked it so much.  Also, seeing Rammstein in the film was a pleasant surprise.  AWESOME music (I kind of wish they'd have used a different song in the film though)!!!As for the actors, they all pretty much did an ok job.  Vin Diesel was just what you'd expect, although he did have some pretty bad dialogue in the film.  I'm really shocked that Samuel L. Jackson agreed to do this film, but hey, that's just fine with me.  I thought he did an ok job, nothing extraordinary, but good enough for me.  The rest of the cast was good, nothing to complain about.One other thing I'd really like to mention is that the trailers gave away WAY TOO MUCH!!!!  I didn't see a whole lot of television commercials, but I did see the trailers in the theaters, and they gave away just about every cool scene.  I was a little bummed, but I'm sure a few months from now I won't care.This review is getting a bit longer than I had expected, so I'll wrap this up.  I thought the movie was pretty good, not as good as Vin Diesel and director Rob Cohen's last film, The Fast And The Furious, but still a fine movie.  I've noticed a great deal of people comparing this film to the James Bond films (as is to be expected).  I would definitely agree that this film is better than some of the older Bond films, but I wouldn't dare say that this one is better than the more recent Bond films.  So, anyway, if you're into action movies with lots of explosions and some crazy stunts or just want to see Vin Diesel with his shirt off, then you'll definitely want to see this film.  If you're looking for a movie with some real substance to it, this is not the film for you.  In any case, I hope you enjoy the film and thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"xxxxxxxxxcelent!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This one not to miss.You should not wait till it comes out on video but see it as soon as you can.It is one of my favorite action movies. The action is the best.The acting is the best.It is in all out goodmovie.I am not even going to bother with any of the title jokes.Oh bythe way..no it isn't a porno!Sorry had to!9/10 "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There comes a time when the world can no longer rely on the foreign agent.  No matter how suave, debonair, and sophisticated the agent is things just don't work out the same anymore.  When that time is reached a new agent is needed.  One who dresses like the gangs he is infiltrating, one who talks the same, and walks the same game.  XXX presents that agent in a big way. Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) is an extreme sports enthusiast on the run from the law.  He has just stolen a senator's corvette and completed his latest stunt of taking it off the side of a bridge while filming the event for his web-site.  At the after stunt celebration he is picked up by a mysterious group of men and put through the paces of multiple tests by a scarred man named Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson). When Cage completes all the tests he has everything explained to him. Gibbons is an agent for the N.S.A. looking for someone to infilitrate a gang known as Anarchy 99.  Unfortunately all the real agents who have attempted this were discovered and dispatched immediately.  Cage is given a choice between life in solitary at a federal prison or one brief infilitration of the group. Cage takes the assignment and infilitrates the gang.  Unfortunately he isn't able to maintain the sullen viewpoint he had and begins to realize that he is doing something important.  Naturally this leads to him helping foil Anarchy 99's plans. Simple plot right?  You don't see this movie for the plot.  This is a fun movie and you see it simply for the action ride.  Rob Cohen (director of The Fast and the Furious) takes the audiance on one heck of a thrill ride with this movie.  The stunts just come one after the other and are varied to, well, the extreme.  Whether driving a vette through the twisty roads, jumping motorcyles through barbed-wire, snowboarding down a mountain, or diving onto a sub this is the ultimate summer thrill ride.The pacing of the movie is perfect in that it takes you to the edge of your seat and then backs off enough to let you breathe before hitting you with the next attack.  Unbelievable!!! Vin Diesel is a monster.  He moves through this movie with a ferocity and grace that is stunning.  One could easily see him as this character and believe he is completely at ease doing anything that is coming up in front of him. Is this a franchise movie?  Only the box office can tell you that for certain but after the first outing all I can say is that Bond is going to have to kick it up a few notches in November or XXX will be the man to watch for action!  "},{"Title":"over-the-top and insanely fun adrenaline trip","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First, let me say I can't sit through a James Bond film. XXX was much more suited for me. Vin is like Brad Pitt to me. A guy that the girls like that is too cool for me to even begin to be jealous about. His character here and the situations he is put in are so unbelievable that the only way I could accept it was to think that this was like a super-charged comic book. After I made that decision, this movie was a blast. Just like with FAST & THE FURIOUS, I left the theatre filled with adrenaline, wanting to try all the stunts and start racing a motorbike. Despite how over-the-top the stunt sequences are in the film they are presented well enough that I can't help but cheer in the theatre. That's what this movie is a chance for you to say, Oh s**t! as many times as you want amongst 500 people. In my opinion, XXX blows 007 out of the water. Turn of your that-can't-happen-in-real-life meter and enjoy. This is an action movie I was able to not only sit through, but also thoroughly enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Decent...and that's being extremely nice.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The way this movie tried to be like a bond movie on sterioids wasn't very appealing.  The acting was a step up from repulsive, and the plot was a step down.  I went into this movie expecting just that, so that is why i think i was able to tolerate the whole thing.  I will admit the stunts were quite enjoyable, nom matter how unrealistic they were.  Oh yeah one more thing...if there was one person who deserves to go back a few years and think about the movies he's decided to do it should be sam l jackson...it's just sickening to see how the quality of the roles he has picked has diminished.6/10...and once again that's being generous "}{"Title":"Agent Extreme","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Director Rob Cohen's XXX starring Vin Diesel is both an extreme departure from and an homage to James Bond. XXX is long over due as a Gen X version of a secret agent-- in your face, smash mouth, aloof, heavy metal, extreme action. The concept is very edgy. Give writer, Rich Wilkes, some props.Mysterious Agent Gibbon (Samuel L. Jackson) recruits Extreme Sports Star, Xander Cage (Vin Diesel), as an NSA agent. Actually, Gibbons extorts Xander Cage into serving his country-- either that or jail. The NSA needs to send an operative into Prague to infiltrate a group of anarchists lead by Yogi (Marton Csokas). As Gibbons puts it We want to send a snake into the snake pit... not a mouse. The action is extreme, probably breaks every law of physics, but it is fun. That is the operative thing-- fun. Diesel as Cage is truly the new paradigm of the secret agent. He is anti-social, buff, tattooed, self-interested, and smart. The funniest scene in the movie occurs when Cage reveals to Yoge's girlfriend, Yelena (well played by Asia Argento), that he is a secret agent for the U.S. government. She says No, you're not., and proceeds to laugh. XXX never takes itself seriously, and has a sense of humor. Rich Wilkes's idea is great, the story is routine, and the one liner's for Diesel for the most part work. Vin Diesel is a movie star. He is charismatic, has a great voice, and a lot of attitude. He plays Cage right-- we get a sense under all the tough guy, lone hero stuff he really cares. XXX is a fun movie. Vin Diesel is going to be a major action star. "},{"Title":"Entertaing","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This action vehicle stars Vin Diesel as the new breed of action star, tough guy jerks with little appealing personality who engage in impressive stuntwork to beat up the bad guys. Now dont get me wrong, this is a perfectly entertaining  film, but Diesel is just not  a very likeable guy and that does hurt the film to some extent... though the visuals and the action sequences remain top notch, though some of the scenes involving digital people looked a tad fake to me. Samuel L. Jackson is great, as always, playing Diesel's agent boss.. and the script has a few creative touches.. so I suppose it is worth it despite Vin's character issues. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Stunts A+, Acting C-","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When XXX focuses on the action sequences, it does pretty well. Van Diesel's physical work is good, they blend him (as opposed to his stunt doubles) into the sequences pretty well, and the movie has just enough outlandish Bond-style stunts to work. The only thing odd is that the movie almost treats Diesel himself as a extreme sports star. Ever seen Gymkata? It's kind like that, where they set up Van Diesel to Do something that spotlights your XTreme Sport Talent of parachuting/skateboarding/skiing/whatever. Except...Diesel doesn't have any such talents (as opposed to the guy in Gymkata who did). Weird.When it comes to something besides action and one-liners, Van Diesel doesn't quite have it. His chemistry with Asia Argento (also good) is not very good, and he looks like a fish during his romance scenes. He also doesn't really capture the Uncaring anarchist-type guy who learns to care when confronted by real anarchists! vibe that the movie requires of him.Samuel Jackson is okay, the techno-geek is okay, and everyone else is...passable but forgettable. There are some odd filming and story decisions. The villain gets killed off prior to the climax, which leaves it curiously flat. The big build-up to the high-tech super-car is somewhat of a let down Xander doesn't _use_ any of its capabilities. And for some reason the director felt obliged to intercut a high-volume super-fast chase sequence with shots of low-volume couples kissing and children playing - I guess to capture the pathos of what is going to be destroyed. Totally disrupts the flow.Overall a good fast-action low-brainer kinda flick. It's basically a star vehicle for Van Diesel, and I'd like to see him succeed. But he needs to get in a little more work before he can pull it off entirely. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX Is a great moive!!!! Vin Disel showed kick ass acting skills, and he looks good in longjohns!!! The plot kinda remind my of MI2, spy vs spy, spy fall in love with good girl/bad girl. Ya' know that stuff. The best part is when Vin aka XXX is being chased by some mexican cops, he's riding a motor-cross bike. There's a big fence with barb wire, he jumps through the wire, how cool is that??My girl Eve had a small part in the movie and she did a good job. Wish her part was bigger. "},{"Title":"A action filled movie that has it's moments when it really shines...","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Triple X is a movie that really feels like a James Bond movie with Vin Diesel put in James Bond's place. The action scenes are great. Some of the tricks p***ed me off because they were too impossible, I like some sense of realism. He(diesel) had some great one liners and some sequences in the movie really had me sold that he was a secret agent. However these were usually followed by a cheesy video game reference such as he learned to shoot in FPS(First Person Shooters). I would recommend this movie to a person with a love of pure action. "},{"Title":"Cage.  Xander Cage.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is yer basic James Bond movie except it's FUN, genuine FUN, thanks to Samuel Jackson, Asia Argento and. . .Vin Diesel, who has (drum roll or some kinda rhythmic loud noise, please) Arrived.  He had the audience on his side going in, and we left even more in his corner.  Can't wait for Quad X.  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, hard to believe","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great audio/video FX, mediocre story, limp directing.  Plenty of action with a fitting and exciting soundtrack, but some less than plausible story elements along with really bad directing (it often felt like they were just piecing together stunt scenes and visual FX, and sometimes out of order) left the movie feeling like a pro-wrestling match with guns and cars.That isn't to say that the acting was bad.  The acting was surprisingly good, though given the directing and dialogue, it would be easy to mistake it as weak.  But you can only blame the actors for so much.  "},{"Title":"Very good action movie, very bad acting","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was waiting for this movie very enthusiastic. I liked a lot Vin Diesel as in Pitch Black as in The fast and the furious. I liked the direction by Rob Cohen of The fast... . I have to say that XXX is very well directed and full of great action.......but Vin Diesel has been a delusion. When I watched Pitch black I immediately said This guy will become a star. Today he is a star but his acting is not so good asI though at my first sensation. Off course he acts better than Schwartznager, but this is too easy. My suggestion to him is that You get the face, you get the body, you are cool with a nice personality now you have to improve your acting. Any case XXX is a cool movie and I recommend it to anybody who likes action movies. My rate to the film is 7. "},{"Title":"This movie could have been so much better . . .","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If the producers had the director of the latest Mountain Dew commercials to do this movie.  Those commercials have the right mix of extreme sports stunts, loud music, and deadpan humor that this movie tries for.Here's my call on Triple-X.THE PROSVin Diesel--he makes this movie.  America always needs a macho badass action hero, and he's the one for this generation.  However, I got the feeling that he was holding back so the movie would get the PG-13 rating.  Someone needs to let him cut loose!  His primal force is his major asset, and it's a bit stifled here.  Otherwise, he's great.  Xander Cage was the role Vin Diesel was born to play.Action Sequences--say what you will about how unrealistic they are, but the action in this movie kicks the adrenaline through the ceiling.  Xander's introductory scene where he drives a Corvette off a bridge and the motorcycle chase where Xander races against an attack chopper firing machine guns at him were my personal favorites.That Girl--no, I'm not talking about Asia Argento.  She's okay, but I really wanted to see more of that hot exotic looking girl in the red lingerie that they show in the previews.  She shows off a couple of sexy stripper moves in her scene.  I know it's eye candy for the 18-25 males, but at least it's good eye candy.  I hope Vin Diesel had the presence of mind to get her phone number before production wrapped.End-Credits Sequence--when the movie is over, don't leave the theater yet. The CG sequence at the end is damn cool and I'd like to get it as a screensaver.  The song during this sequence, Adrenaline, is sung by Bush. It's not as good as the Deftones album by the same name, but it is pretty catchy.THE CONSThe Script--this is an action movie, so I wasn't expecting to get blown away by the screenplay like in The Sixth Sense or Memento.  There are major plot holes all over the place.  The writer also suffers from post-Terminator 2 syndrome.  After I'll be back and Hasta a la vista, baby, too many action movies have tried to coin the next big catch-phrase.  And aside from the extreme-sports premise, the plot seemed like it was recycled from Mission Impossible 2.Action Sequences--I'll be more clear.  The stuntwork is first-rate.  It would have to be, to get all this amazing stuff on film.  It's the way the action was packaged that annoyed me.  When things were getting the most intense, the director would either pull back the camera for a long shot, distancing the audience from the action, or shoot the action from every possible angle instead of choosing the most exciting one.  This is really a subjective thing, though.  I just like to have tight, close-in tracking shots during action sequences.  It takes the audience along for the ride.The Villain--this guy had such a bad accent he seemed like a cartoon character.  I laughed at him more than I hated him.  I was hoping for someone who could fight Xander on equal terms.  That's what I get for hoping each new movie villain will be the next Hannibal Lecter.The Music--way too loud, way too much of it, and played at all the wrong times.  I like loud music in a movie, just not when it's because the producers are trying to sell the soundtrack.OVERALL XXX is worth a watch.  Vin Diesel is a great anti-hero, and director Rob Cohen is maturing nicely.  Cohen is a step above hacks like Dominic Sena and Simon West, but he's yet to reach the godlike status of James Cameron, John Woo, or the Wachowski brothers.SCORE 7.0 out of 10  "},{"Title":"sheer silliness","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" XXX is just boring. It tries to update the Bond franchise but doesn't even come close. The sly innuendo of Bond is completely lost on Vin Diesel, who delivers one-liners that are so dumb and unfunny that it makes you wish you were watching Pierce Brosnan. I guess the action scenes were pretty cool, but in my mind crazy stunts just aren't very thrilling anymore. Filmmakers need to find some new way of going about shooting action scenes to make them more interesting. Director Rob Cohen tries to top all other action flicks by having everything in sight explode, but it just doesn't work. The opening sequence, with the Rammstein concert, was awesome, and the end credits CG animation was amazing. The other music in the film sucked (mostly awful loud punk garbage) and I really wish they had stuck a few more Rammstein songs or some techno in there instead. That would have helped the action scenes. The main baddie is entirely stereotypical from the beginning, basically a more dull version of the Bond villains. The other acting was OK, but the dialogue and plot as a whole was so moronic that it just didn't matter. Diesel is officially a big star, and is still a lot of fun to watch, but he has a lot to learn about dramatic acting. Overall, XXX isn't really mindless entertainment because it isn't all that entertaining, just fast and dull. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Rammstein was awesome in this movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this for one reason, to see Rammstein to see them perform Feuer Frei! again and man it was awesome, again. they are the best to see in concert. overall the movie was ok the first scene is the best since RAMMSTEIN is in it. "},{"Title":"Move over 007","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"     I went into the theater not really anticipating Triple X. Knowingthat Triple X was distributed by the same director and producersas the overrated blockbuster The Fast and the Furious, I thought itwould've been another overrated blockbuster. I was proved wrong.Vin Diesel was great as the sharp tounge American agent XanderCage.His great  skills reminded of the X Games or something ofthat matter.    His ways with women was incredible and other than that theaction was mind blowing. The action scenes were incredibly shot.I give Rob Cohen the credit for making this but The Fast and theFurious left a deep scar.Triple X doesn't exactly make the perfect 10 but it gets a 9 and aspot in My Movies list. "},{"Title":"Triple X kicks Double Oh 7's @$$","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now this is how spying such be done  extreme sports, European raves, girls swinging on bedpost, and anarchy.  The best spy thriller since Roger Moore was 007.  Vin Diesel may not have much acting range but he's stage presence is as huge as his chest.  "},{"Title":"fast, loud, and stylish","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all, this movie does not go in for a lot of realism in action sequences or depth in characterizations, so kick back and enjoy.  Prague is visually a great city for movies, and like San Francisco seems to insist on being a character as opposed to a backdrop. If James Bond were being created today he would be a lot like Xander Cage. The opening scene shows a tuxedoed spy getting killed trying to infiltrate the baddies. Point made. True, the Bond films have kept up with the toys, but the vibe of them is still early sixties. Pierce Brosnan was nine years old when Dr. No was released. Rob Cohen seemed to be going for a Kubrick-like visual poetry thing. He didn't match the master, but I sensed shades of A Clockwork Orange in the nihilistic party ethos of Anarchy 99. Not a movie that will win an Oscar, but a lot of fun. I left the theater entertained. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but worth the money","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  i mean, yeah, its an action movie so expect the writing to be horrible. but vin diesel and asia argento are great, the action scenes will wow you, and the little gadgets are just neat. the directing was pretty good too, come to think of it. go see it in the theatres while you still can because it wouldn't be the same on videoasia argento has done better movies though. check out scarlet diva and travelling companion, if you can find them "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"   One word can sum up everything in this movie. Awesome. If you are just in the mood to see a great action flick on a weekend, go see XXX. I went at 920 at night and there were quite a few people all of which were pleased with the movie. All my friends thought it was good too. So just hang out and don't worry about artistic value and stuff, just watch a great action movie. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to XXX on opening night with a 14 year old girl in tow. The theatre was packed, mostly women, and I thought it was great. The action sequences were fun, even the villians had sex appeal, yes it is all about Marton in the beginning. It was far fetched, cheesy and yet, delicious. No, it's not exactly To Kill A Mockingbird, but does every movie have to be. This is a great Friday night movie, and the beauty is, I didn't hear a single person complaining on the way out of the theatre, and not many movies now a days can say that! "},{"Title":"Triple-Cool","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you are looking for an Academy Award winner...this is not it, but this film has an amazing cool factor to it. It has a typical action/adventure plot, but the action in non-stop. This film contains lots of things blowing up, and some spectacular stunts. Jumping over an exploding building on a dirt bike, and out-running an avalanche on a snowboard. This film is a must for all action/adventure fans. Not a lot of brain-power is required to watch this film. It is intended as eye candy only, and delicious eye candy it is.  "},{"Title":"not revolutionary, but still, a good flick","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I read alot of magazine articles before I saw this movie talking about how it was the reinvention of the action movie, well, I'm not so sure about that, however, this is still a really good action picture. The one thing that is SO amazing about this movie is the almost obscene amount of action, probably more action then I've seen in one movie before. IF you have ever liked an action movie, go see this, it's at least worth your time. "},{"Title":"James Bond for the MTV crowd","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll start off by saying I like Vin Diesel in this role. He's not the greatest of actors but he works well in tough guy roles. XXX is like a supercharged James Bond with even crazier stunts than Bond himself could probably pull off.The action starts with Xander Cage(Diesel) pulling off(and videotaping) a sports stunt. Shortly after he is abducted and reluctantly trained by the NSA before being shipped off to Prague where he falls in with(small spoiler) a group known as Anarchy-99. These are the guys planning to ruin the world(end spoiler).It's not difficult to tell that Rob Cohen directed this movie because the action is intense and non stop. There's plenty of eye candy here but if you are looking for Oscar level acting go somewhere else.The plot could be deeper, but in the same vein as Bond movies, the plot is secondary to the action.Overall this movie is an enjoyable popcorn flick and it definitely holds your attention through the whole thing. "}{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Its no Lord of the Rings, but I had to say I had a great time! The music was excellent, the characters quite entertaining, and the dialogue was better then expected.It was kinda predictable, but thats the price you pay for the most innovative and spectacular stunt sequences I've ever seen.The storyline was average, but I have to say that the creativity of the awesomly-executed action sequences was enough to make this into an awesome summer movie! 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"A new James Bond -  extreme to the maxxx","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The original James Bond specialty of high action attacks and escapes is back.  I found myself (age 65+) clenching my fists during the high action scenes.  They got to me.  The only one that was overdone was the second test in Colombia.  The outcome of these action scenes was predictable but they were really well done.  (You always knew that JB would succeed.) Lots of funny throw-away lines, just like the vintage JB films.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy but fine cheese","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm dubbing him the Gen X Bond.  Action packed, good sound track, sound mixing was good in the theater I was in - more testing when the DVD comes out.  If you went in expecting anything but a Bond flick you will somewhat disappointed.  I think the 20 something Xers out there who are into the X life will eat this up.  Upgrade the plot and improve the one liners a bit on the next one you will have the makings of the new Gen X Bond series.  I'm looking forward to the next one. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not much more","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was stupid fun. Pretty people, ridiculous stunts, and lots of explosions. I expected nothing more than that and I have to say it was an entertaining film. The only way to be dissapointed by XXX would be if you thought it might be a thoughtful and well developed film. Keep your expectations low and you'll enjoy this movie. I do have to give Director Rob Cohen credit for portraying the European characters well, and creating a very european style to the film. Sure, some of the film was ridiculous, but it succedes at entertaining the audience.  "},{"Title":"Blows Bond away!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rarely write anything about movies and I'm not sure how to describe this one.  Bond re-invented and blows Bond away come to mind.  Think Bond except American and black, with a smart mouth, a criminal past, and no reguard for authority.  Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) still manages to save the world -- his way.  Its about time we had an American 'secret agent' that was cooler than 007!Oh, and make sure to watch the closing credits.  The video graphics that accompany them are a fitting end to the movie. "},{"Title":"Better Than the Fast and The Furious!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I Recommend Everyone who are fans of Vin Diesel to go see this movie. Plenty of action. A+. I 'd say this movie is a kick-ass ride. Vin Diesel Rocks. I'd say this movie is looks better and more extreme than The Fast and The Furious. Don't Miss This movie!  "},{"Title":"Good for a 12 year old.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  That guy on the bike is the Drug Lord...Let's get him!Yes, that actually was a line from XXX. Kind of sounds like a 12 year old wrote it. I think a 12 year old directed it to. So if you're 12 years old, you might enjoy this film. XXX is so bad, you might need to provide your own jokes and dialogue Mystery Science Theatre style to help ease the pain of watching this.Now I know you can't take a movie like this too seriously, but come on. They didn't even try with this one. There's a heat-seeking missle that that singles out one guy in a room full of people because he's smoking...and let's not forget the lead female who has the amazing ability to shoot one guy through closed doors and avoiding hitting another. How did she do that? Well, she explains I heard you talking so I knew where you were standing (Apparently she uses this same magical ability later in the movie to see straight through a bridge wall to find the hero.) XXX is full of really bad moments like these.Some of the stunts are pretty cool though. However, some go too far. So far that they stop being cool and become absurd.Sometimes I like to be entertained by a mindless action movie, but this one is so mindless that I think that I am now less intelligent having seen it. "},{"Title":"drivel","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Where do I begin? Let's start with Vin Diesel, shall we? His acting was astonishingly bad. There had to have been cue cards just off screen, there's no other explanation for that level of ineptitude. The NSA recruits a criminal to go on a mission? Apparently that agency doesn't require security clearances anymore. Also, as someone who actually does work for a government agency, the CIA or DIA does the kinds of things he does in the movie, not the NSA. I can overlook mistakes like that in a mindless action movie however. What I can't overlook is when action scenes start breaking into Matrix territory. I enjoy mindless action scenes as much as the next guy, but when they break the laws of physics several times over while ripped off James Bond music plays in the background, it becomes hilarious, and not in a good way. Even if, by some miracle, this was a great move, I still wouldn't be able to get past Diesel's acting. He makes Keanu Reeves' performance in The Matrix look Oscar-worthy by comparison. "},{"Title":"I live for this","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Let me begin by saying the only thing 'tripple' about the film is it's suck-factor. Other than dealing out a healthy slice of Vin Diesel justice the film offers little more. The direction is to say the least excrement; a soundtrack that would get even Stephen Hawking running in terror; acting as usual for Vin is top notch, raising the bar for the likes of Kevin Spacey and Anthony Hopkins. If you didn't enter with epilepsy you're sure as hell going to leave with it; as the senses are raped by explosion after mind-numbing explosion. It's true what they say; sawing your own leg off with a stone is both less painful and more entertaining. The plot is overly simple to the extent of it being a personal affront to the audience; how many times have we been subjected to the same 'working for the government - saving the world' combo? Too many is the answer, too many Vin, don't let it happen again. "},{"Title":"Not fun at all","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" While at first glance, it may seem as though this movie has some elements to make it quite an entertainer namely action, guns, explosions, stunts and special effects, it really does not deliver despite having all those. The only one who knows how to act in this movie is Samuel L Jackson and the rest of the cast really ruin any potential with their third rate acting effort. This business of bad ass attitude plus extreme sports angles in a twist to a James Bond theme or anything else, just does not work. It is supposed to be cool but it really ends up looking lame. The only moment I could call memorable in this movie is when the colombian drug-lord comes in as a total loser and gets laughed at Funeee guuyy and of course, the intro concert by Rammstein. "}{"Title":"This action movie is underrated","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" When most people see this movie they think it is overrated. As for me, I think it is underrated. For an action lover like myself, it keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire movie. While the plot is very weak, it has very cool fighting sequences which in a way override a weak plot. It was a huge plus to have Vin Diesel as the star because he is a straight up monster! Asia Argento adds the spice to make it an all-around awesome movie. While Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) is a spy in a fake espionage movie, people in the movie show him as a rebel that has mass skills with sports and Grand Theft Auto. He will stop at nothing to do what he must do. "},{"Title":"This was indeed One Hell Of A Trip","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" -----SPOILERS-----------This is a great Action movie, Vin Deisle is one of my favorite actors and was great as XXX. XXX brings, Crimminals, cops, and terrorists to the screen in a great way. this is an original character working in a standard blow S%@*T up movie and thats why it rocked. if your going to watch it watch the directors cut because there is scene that shows how Xander feels in a way and it explains his mission a little better. now Sammuel L. Jackson does get a little Extreme with the tests but it makes for good action, and a lot of explosions. this is what I love. now is your not into crazy stunts Shootouts, anti-heroes, and some cool explosions then XXX is not for you but if thats you thing then check it out.This movie is a 10 in my book, (Definatley worth watching)P.S XXX is not nor was he ever meant to be james bond. OK. "},{"Title":"i thought it jammed","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" everyone says their were all these screw ups & other things wrong with the movie but i must tell you people that the movie is fiction it is not meant to be real so i mean come on if you want real find a movie based on real life!why can't people just enjoy a movie for what it is not how you feel it should be jeez everyone's a critic get a life i mean it is only entertainment!i mean i notice things wrong with a lot of movies but like i said i know it is just a fantasy/sci-fi somewhat anyway.i love movies i must have like 400-450 dvds by now & still going including the lord of the rings extended gift sets.anyway i'm just saying that just have fun cause that is what movies are for! "},{"Title":"Could be even better","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The title of this movie is a little bit strange (as it is rating/code for adult movies) but the popularity of this movie has helped in changing the impression of the term/abbreviation XXX.The main character Xander Cage (XXX) is amusingly eccentric and true definition of bad in attitude but good in heart. The character is perfect for Vin Diesel.The movie gives a very powerful impression of Xander Cage (XXX) in its beginning. Xander Cage (XXX) is rude, a bit proud and practical fan of extreme sports but surprisingly intelligent. His physical abilities and intelligence make Agent Gibbons to get XXX as an NSA Agent.The character Yorgi was also very interesting and he did best as villain. A perfect villain is very necessary for a good action flick. Hope to see this actor in more movies.As the summary says this movie 'could be even better'. Provided the power of leading character, the writer could provide us with an 'even better' story and plot twists. There are some turns in the story which are kind of silly or too simple. But as an Action movie it is perfect if not best.There are some modern-day James Bond movies which have actually bored me but XXX never did so. I enjoyed the entire movie (except the kisses and nudity which always make me feel uncomfortable).Many people have called XXX a silly movie but believe me it never fails to entertain you. "},{"Title":"A first rate action adventure! **** out of 5","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" What can I say? I love a film where explosions, action sequences, and one liners are absolutely key. xXx satisfies ones yearning for any of those elements.One of my favorite scenes is when Xander and two other guys are captured by Columbians. You know what's funny... is that smells like real blood. A very intense and funny scene. Executed brilliantly.Acting here is pretty darn good. It's directed with a lot of style by Rob (Dragonheart) Cohen and the special effects are nothing short of completely believable.Also, I enjoyed the cameo appearance by Rammstein. Very unexpected.Even though Vin Diesel won't be starring, I do look forward to xXx State of the Union. If it's anything like this it's sure to be a winner. Plus, Marco Beltrami will be scoring, a big plus.Check this out. It's awesome. "},{"Title":"impossible to believe ,over the top nonsense","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed it for a while , then as it progressed it became a joke ... first he was amazing , then stupid , then amazing , then stupid ... this went on for the duration of the film . I was at a friends house watching it . Glad I did not pay to see it in a theater . And to think a second version is coming out !!! GAG me .I love action films .... but this smells like old diapers .  "},{"Title":"Are you serious????????","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I decided to rent this movie, I had heard all my friends saying this was the greatest movie. They loved it. I could usually trust them in their opinions, but their opinions were way off.We all probably agree 2 Fast 2 Furious was a total improvement on the The Fast and The Furious. Why? The best guess I can give is because Vin decided to leave. He's a total publicity stunt. A money-maker. And we fall into the trap. Vin, if you're reading this, take my advice you can't act, so go back to being a bouncer. At the very least, you would make a publicity stunt working as that.The biggest problem with XXX is Vin can't act. He's in every scene, and this is what shines through. I don't know how they can't Samuel Jackson to actually work with him. Even if Vin could act, it's no savior to a script that lags in every single thing they do. How could that be possible in an action movie of that caliber? Simple through the whole movie, you ask yourself, Is that possible? Given this kind of action movie, it really should try to keep some level of reality to it, but it seems Vin's motto happens to be is, As long as it makes money. Even the special effects are horrible. The avalanche makes you look at the clock, the chase at the end of the movie makes you wonder how long the movie is (and there's only five minutes left in the movie!), and the motorcycle chase scene made me think of other things I could be doing.The worst part of the movie (this is quite a feat, actually, they should be given an award) is Jackson's lines are more predictable than Vin's. How in the world could that be possible????In the sequel coming out in two years, Ice Cube is taking over Vin's part. I actually think Vin did the project a favor by quitting for a second time in a row.To make a horribly long story short a very generous * out of ****  "},{"Title":"Trash version of good 007 movies","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a waste of time. This is a poor and stupid version of the so much better James Bond movies - all the old well known ideas are there - the guy that beats everyone and will solve anything, the guy that has all the fancy weapons, the lady who's also an agent and the all so previsible end - the agend and the girl on some paradise place while the boss is calling on some com device.  "},{"Title":"a loud load or rubbish","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  now lets get one thing straight shall we, Vin deisel is no way near as good as bond but he still tries to do one better than him by ridiculously trying to jump several feet over a barb wire fence and over a building. This film is like so many bad guy, good guy films but never reaches the same level as them( actually it plummits away from them). I rented the DVD and and the and the soundtrack was far too over powering to the film and gave me an ear ache. I that wasn't bad enough VIN looks a complete idiot trying to act seriously and in love scenes, it's a load of crap. AWFUL!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"doesnt deserve to be called a movie","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have a fear that if I go to hell, I will have to watch crappy movies over and over again - I am going to be tortured by perpetually being forced to watch such masterpieces as Dude, Where is my Car?, Adventures of Pluto Nash, Best of the Best series; and this will certainly make a perfect additions to devil's tools of tortureHere is why 1) This movie has no plot - I mean it has a story, but a 6-year-old child can make up a more believable and intense idea2) Acting is just awful; man with this acting shopping channel hosts must be given out Oscars.  Samuel must have some outstanding bills to pay3) OMG the Stunts - they are good if you like computer-generated, (obvious) stunt-double tricks - how lame can it get4) Vin Diesel - man this guy is an enigma - first he makes few descent appearances in movies like Saving Private Ryan, Fast and Furious, even Pitch Black - and then this piece of crap - I guess $$$ is everything for this guy- I cant believe some people even dare to mention James Bond's similarity to this tasteless crap - if I could I would start mass burnings of XXX dvd's for public pleasure and personally imprison the director of this movie for life - But that's just my opinion; oh yeah - here is my rating for this movie 0.5/10 - I give it a generous 0.5 because of some nice shots of Prague, I like Europe  "}{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel stars as Xander Cage a Xtreme sports athlete who is recruited by the CIA to take down a terrorist group called Anarchy 99, while he falls for a russian girl (Asia Argento) Samuel L. Jackson is the man who recruits Diesel in this mindless yet popular actioner which rips off James Bond but fails to shoe the audience something new. "},{"Title":"Testosterone on Wheels...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"   Vin Diesel, of The Fast and the Furious fame, is a new breed of secret agent in xXx.  Xander Cage (X to his friends) is an adrenaline riddled, extreme sports junkie, who one day happens to be arrested by the NSA, and is basically forced into hunting down a Russian drug lord by the man-with-the-plan, Samuel L. Jackson. Because he is a criminal, he fits in well with the crowd of drug lords and murderers, and earns the trust of them, all except for Asia Argento, the Bond girl for this film. What xXx tries to accomplish isn't easy - taking over the reigns from James Bond.  I like that Asia Argento in an interview said she hates Bond, because the films are sexist, and her character in xXx has her own opinion. What's funny about that is, in numerous scenes, women are used as deal-closers, brought in after business. At one part there is a party, and Asia Argento is dancing sensually, with the camera shooting low, if you catch my drift. Then at another point in the film, women in a pool outside are lifted by two men, and are clunked together like beer glasses, and in one scene, which I was surprised didn't garner an R rating, a woman (in bikini/thong) seductively dances for X, leading to X saying The things I'm gonna do for my country... Real non-sexist, Asia.The thing is, Vin has the acting ability of a gorilla, and the voice, as well. But, however, that is almost always the case with action stars, and what I find hard to overcome is his attitude in real life - a tough guy much like X in the film. The film has some interesting stunt sequences, many of them ridiculous, like when X soars through the air on his motorbike, hangs on to the seat, and fires a gun at an enemy. Ridiculous yes; fun yep. Like most action films, it's just pure stupid, but nevertheless fun. I enjoyed xXx as a summer flick, and found even though its overbearing attempt to overtake Bond is sickening, it's still a fun, testosterone-packed action adventure. Reality lovers beware. Roger Ebert nailed this film with his review, and I agree. It won't by any means be taking over Bond, but it's Terrific entertainment, as he wrote in his review...3/5 stars-John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Too much guilt.  Not enough pleasure.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  From Rob Cohen (director of The Fast and the Furious) comes another mindless action vehicle that caters to those who fry their brains all day with Playstation and Nintendo 64.  Unless you're a sucker for elaborate stunts, there's nothing to see here.  How the hell do they come to the conclusion that XXX is the Bond for the new generation?  If that's the case, then I'm going back in time.  Screw that!Sean Connery...Roger Moore...Pierce Brosnan...Vin Diesel???  Comparing XXX to 007?  What the hell are you thinking?  How do you go from Shaken, not stirred to I live for this s**t?After hearing Vin Diesel's inspiring story on Jay Leno about his early attempts to become an independent filmmaker, I decided What the hell? I'll give this guy a chance, totally shrugging off his horrible performance in Fast and Furious.  And what do I get?  Another horrible performance. Vin maintains the same conceited, I'm-the-man expression throughout the entire film.  It gets extremely annoying at times.  He tries to sell every line he delivers, as if he's waiting for applause from the audience.  I thought the whole idea of XXX is he's a RELUCTANT secret agent.  That would've been a great premise.  He's having a ball!  Vin doesn't even have nearly as much charisma as a Sean Connery or Roger Moore or Pierce Brosnan.  He's just another muscular body.  The women will most probably swoon, but that's not saying much.  The cool thing about most action heroes is that women love him and guys want to be him.  Well, I don't wanna be a damn thing like this moron.The acting, with the exception of Samuel L. Jackson and the beautiful woman who plays Vin's love interest, is horrible.  The dialogue is beyond horrible.  The music is cool but, like in Fast and Furious, often mismatched with each scene.  Basically, Cohen thought to himself, Young people are watching this movie.  I'll just insert a hit song wherever possible.Even guilty pleasures require a certain degree of wit.  This movie doesn't contain anything that even resembles wit.  If you're 18 and under with the attention span of a 2-year-old, you'll have a blast.  But if not, please avoid this disaster of a movie.  Films like this make the Jerry Springer audience look like arthouse conoisseurs.My score  3 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Who needs a story and actors when we have million dollar effects and Vin Diesel?","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This has to be the most insultingly self-indulgent action movie I've ever seen. It fails at life. It fails on every single level. The action is too over-the-top for you to take anything seriously. The acting is so bad from our muscular leading man Diesel that you root for HIM to die, not the bad guy. Just watching his stoned, one-note face and listening to his emotionless, painfully self-righteous voice is enough to make you want to throw up. This ex-bouncer is possibly the worst actor who ever made it big. He makes you forget Affleck and Coleman Francis, that's how bad he is.The story is dumb and contrived. xXx is a film directed without any style at all, filled to the brim with extreme sports, cool attitudes, tough cars, gay-ass shirts for Vin, rave music, and all the things the director thinks is cool enough to bring the teenage crowd into the theaters. Unfortunately, he was right.Since xXx aims to be full-blown, no-limits action, you would expect me to say at least the action scenes were good. No. The action is so overblown, so ridiculous and pointless it just feels like overkill. Obviously we need an explosion every two or three scenes, how else are we supposed to follow what's going on without falling asleep?Samuel L. Jackson keeps cashing in money with little to show for it, riding on his popularity after Pulp Fiction, Jackie Brown and True Romance. The truth is, he is an excellent actor, and he is wasting his time picking easy projects like this brainless stinker just to make money.(review#2) "},{"Title":"xXx is no 007","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" So someone got the idea that James Bond isn't cool enough and the result is the putrid pile of excrement known as xXx.The opening scene has a spy, in a suit, getting knocked off in an underground club (with Rammstein performing) by bad guys who dress like they are in a High School garage band. With the Bond type spy removed in this pathetic attempt at a metaphor we are introduced to Xander Cage who is an extreme sports athlete, political activist, and car thief all rolled into one. He starts of by stealing a politicians car and crashing it in an extreme bridge jump then soon enough he is (only Rob Cohen knows why) recruited by a secret agency working for the US Government to spy on some eastern European criminals, but this is only after he has proved himself in a series of ridiculous tests to see if he is worthy enough of the job. Now this all would have been entertaining and terrific, but (unbeknownst to Rob Cohen) most of the movie going audience isn't 5 years old.Rob Cohen has crafted, in a truly pathetic attempt, a new action hero who is supposed to relate to the younger audience better because he blasts dance music at parties and plays sports. The only real thing Cohen has created here is a sad excuse for mindless action scenes and a plot so cliché it is not even funny. I mean when the bad guys' motive is Mother Russia you just cannot help but to laugh. This idiotic, lame, semi-political, pseudo-American patriotic plot element is so tired, and here, presented so badly that Cohen should be embarrassed. Also, the film's supposed claim of James Bond being out of style and boring was spectacularly shot down when Die Another Day proved better with audiences, critics, and box office. 2/10 Rated PG-13 overblown violence/action, profanity, and ridiculously juvenile sexual material "},{"Title":"Xplosive Action, Xtreme Thrills!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx (triple x)Starring Vin Diesel, Asia Argento and Samuel L. Jackson Rated PG-13 for Violence, Non-Stop Action Sequences, Sensuality, Drug Content and Language Genre Action/Adventure/Thriller Star Rating **** out of 5 Vin Diesel stars in another cool action movie done by the same people who did The Fast and the Furious! Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage who is a notorious underground thrill seeker who until now has been deemed untouchable by the law. NSA Agent Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) then hires Xander to work as an agent for the U.S. Government and then becomes known as XXX (triple x). His mission is to gather information on an organization that may just be planning the destruction of the world caused by a Russian crime group. The action sequences were cool and I also liked the 1967 GTO car that Vin Diesel drove in this movie. I think it's cool that when Vin Diesel does action movies he mostly plays characters that have a daredevil kind of attitude.BOTTOM LINE XTREME AND XPLOSIVE! "},{"Title":"Makes me Miss the good old days of violent 80s action movies","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yet again Rob Cohen tries to direct a film for an audience he thinks he understands, and he does it again by trying to make it as flashy, noisy and as incredibly stupid as he can.Logic it seems has no place here and we're thrown every generic character ever to have existed in action movies. The reluctant hero recruited to take down a mad terrorist, the hard as nails boss, the love interest who has a few secrets of her own, the absolutely nonthreatening Russian bad guy and not forgetting the geeky, and very annoying comedy side kick who provides Vin with his tools.It's got plenty of action, and while I do like a good dose of mindless violence now and again, there is a limit to how much bullet time style, CGI manipulated action scenes I'm willing to sit through before they all start looking the same. The action scenes themselves are fairly forgettable and very silly. Vin Diesel surfing down a hand rail on a dinner tray! I'm sure there are some who would find that entertaining, though I hope they are in the minority.Usually I'd stick to the old suspension of disbelief to swallow the bull these films feed me, but here the action scenes are so stupid you can't help but pick holes in them. Why does an avalanche look like a rock slide with huge snow boulders? why do dirt bikes jump in the air for no reason just before explosions? Cohen can't even string these action scenes together well enough to make them exciting. A few shoot out's here and there but nothing remotely as adrenalin surged as many other, more enjoyable action movies around.The acting is even worse. Vin Diesel made a name for himself in the tough guy role in pitch black, though the role of Riddick only really demanded he looked and sounded tough. Here he's required to do more, and I really wish he hadn't tried. And I don't know what Samuel Jackson was thinking when he decided to star in this, but not even he puts on a half decent performance, only really there to add some star power.How I miss the days of the old, violent 80's action movie, where heroes where believable and action scenes where genuinely on the edge of your seat stuff. These days it's all the same, throwaway pop video style movies milking of the Matrix's success. XXX is one of the worst, not exciting, badly acted and with none of the class or style of the Bond movies it wishes it could replace.  "},{"Title":"I KNOW JAMES BOND SIR AND YOU ARE NO JAMES BOND","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX (2002) ** Vin Diesel, Samuel L. Jackson, Asia Argento, Marton Csokas.  Generation Y's antidote to James Bond, with plug-ugly galoot Diesel as an extreme thrill-seeking antihero &#145;recruited' by National Security toughie Jackson into the usual hodgepodge of Eurotrash villainy (in the guise of greasy Russkie Csokas), chemical warfare, and carnage aplenty at high decibel volumes of incoherent trashy fun.  Waycool blend of visual computer generated imagery with fast and furious stunts are the true stars of this franchise wannabe that, what lacks in subtle élan a la Bond, comes through in gut-wrenching gags like the show-stopping avalanche via snowboarding event.  Otherwise run-of-the-mill popcorn junk directed by Rob Cohen with all the nuance of a bull in a china shop. "},{"Title":"Worst  action-flig EVER","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I really hate this movie (so if you love it, don't read this comment). I cant even begin, i have so much, so i will say a few things. First of all Vin Diesel must be the worst actor in history, he is worse than Hayden Christensen and Pamela Aderson. Instead of reading his lines he communicates them in a kind of caveman-fashion... secondly he also grunts the rest of his lines.Then there is the worst action scene in history of film-making.Vin Diesel is to escape a castle full of bad guys Vin Diesel have placed C4-explosives around the castle, then he steals a bike, and rides to the gate, then but 5 bad-guys springs out - Vin Diesel shoot these people with ease, then he rides at full speed at the gate (which must be around 15 meters high), then somehow Vin Diesel manages to jump his motorcycle up in the air, then about 25 bad guys shows up on both sides of the gate, Vin Diesel being the tough guy which he is, jumps back on the seat of his motorcycle, graps around the back of the bike, then pulls out a machine-gun (all this is in a lame slow-motion), then Vin Diesel manages to shoot every single bad guy between the eye in a cool fashion, then he shoots all the badguys on the other site, lands in a cool fashion, and pulls a detonator and uses it to blow up most of the castle....... all this in what in the reel world would have been 15 seconds...... i have never seen a scene in a movie which i have hated more....it speaks for the whole movie. Don't watch it. WORST ACTION-FLIG EVER 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie with even worse acting.","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Except from a few impressive effects, nothing about this movie is good. The plot is oh so weak and even that weak plot is poorly executed. The script could very well be the dumbest, most cliché filled and all over worst script written. Unlike som flicks such as for example Tango & Cash the script isn't bad in a funny kind of way. It's just bad. Vin Diesel's performance is one the worst I've ever seen in a movie this big. Asia Argento puts in a decent performance and Samuel L Jackson does what you would expect him to do in a crappy movie like this, plays on routine. He has played that part so many times he could do it in his sleep. You can tell that none of the actors in this movie belived in it, and why should they? They did their job (poorly) cashed their checks, went home and never thought of this movie again. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. If you want to see a cool action flick, just re-watch Die Hard. "}{"Title":"License to Squeal","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I know why kids pollute their minds with this ADD tripe. i know why there is a Hollywood machine eager to make small lives out of feeding their puppy lust. But Samuel Jackson has a lot of explaining to do. More rides on his success than just his kids.Look, I love excess `Face/Off,' even `Fast and Furious' were worthwhile. The latter was cool because of the way it made fun of dolts who value cars. It even played with some dangerous racial film notions of Asians. But this isn't Bond, because it takes itself seriously. It reminded me of Runaway Train, even though it had a brief musical reference to the Third man.Ted's evaluation 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"The Xander Zone if for the loading and unloading of teen boys only","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is an extension of the nominally successful male juvi exploitation flick Fast and Furious with the bald ugly guy with muscles on his tattoos playing a secret agent who's out to save the planet from your average Dr. Evil nemesis while impressing the hell out of babe-alicious Argento. A sort of Bond for babies, XXX parallels every 007 movie ever made with eXtreme action in lieu of class, finesse, and sophistication. Among the countless flaws are a bad guy who seems nicer than the hero; a missed op to zoom in on Argento's angel tat; and Diesel sucking face with the Italian diva which totally grossed me out. For kids only. (C+)  "},{"Title":"very bad acting","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This kind of movie unlike is very predictable ,it should be better done ,you can describe this film as mediocre and even the special effects looks so fake . There is a problem when Hollywood want to show the bad guys in the movie , there is this stereotype thing about Band guys who are Russians with a terrible accent , maybe is something that the director wants , but in my opinion there should be new ideas of bad guys There is an excess of special effects, this makes the movie look less credible and in some points boring Also the story is silly and pointless , i think the writers had a difficult time creating a new action hero. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Xander Zone","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" First off, I immediately liked the crazy German party opening scene. Though I am not a Rammstein fan, the energy they gave the beginning of the movie was a great way to pull the audience into the action. The stunts and driving were wonderful, as usual with Vin Diesel movies. The plot was okay. I pretty much knew that the chick was an American undercover from a little after the movie started, and she wouldn't have been my pick to end up with Xander, but whatever. The movie was still nicely executed and did not disappoint me after beginning my obsession with the actor and watching his Riddick movies. I was very please to have another movie where he was a super-action tough guy character. "},{"Title":"Predictable yet very entertaining","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx is a very entertaining and fun thrill ride with a lot of great action scenes. The plot is rather simple and predictable but thats the worst of its worries. For an action-packed, brain-dead testosterone fest, I have to admit Rob Cohen's xXx isn't that bad. I remember hearing mixed reviews about the film and I wanted to see how it was for myself. Though the script is full of the most corny of action dialogue, and the story is as epic in its unlikelihood as any Bond picture could be, but I think that's the point. The fiery explosions, the unmitigated villainy, the stunts, the gadgets&#x97;it's all so gleefully over-the-top. The film starts off pretty good, drags a little in the then gets a little better towards the ending. Though the first hour is its best.Script-wise, the film is less impressive. You're desperate for Vin to bust out the cool one-liners at every stage of the movie, but the best he can manage is I told you smoking would kill you! (yes, kids, there's a MESSAGE here), or, worse, If you're going to send someone to save the world, make sure they like it the way it is. There's also Oh, the things Im going to do for my country... Overall the film was great as entertainment and brainless fun but could have had a better story "},{"Title":"The next time you send someone to save the world make sure they like it the way it is. Decent if shallow action film.","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx (or 'Triple X' as it's said) starts in Prague as an undercover US agent is killed by members of an organisation who call themselves Anarchy 99. Meanwhile in the US extreme sports internet superstar Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) steals a senator's car & drives it off a very high bridge (filmed at the Foresthill Bridge in Auburn which is the tallest bridge in California) in protest to the senator's views, Xander is caught & NSA agent Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) offers him a deal in which Xander either goes to prison for the rest of his life or accepts the job of going to Prague & infiltrating Anarchy 99. Xander has gain the trust of Anarchy 99's leader, a former Russian soldier named Yorgi (Marton Csokas) who intends to detonate bombs of a deadly chemical virus called Silent Night over several major capital cities & killing millions. Xander has to stop him & his plan & uses his extreme sports skills to stay alive & defeat Anarchy 99...Directed by Rob Cohen this big budget action film is a mix of James Bond spy adventure with a bit of Léon (1994) & Die Hard (1989) thrown in there to give it a bit of an edge & a mainstream teen appeal, while not a bad film xXx isn't anything special. The whole plot is lifted from a James Bond film, the evil organisation with some madman at the helm who has devised some elaborate over complicated scheme that threatens the entire world. Here in xXx the gimmick is that the man sent in to stop the world threatening plan is an anti-authority extreme sports enthusiast who has an attitude problem to start with but soon comes round as he becomes your typical action hero fairly quickly, sure his extreme sports skills lead to some cool action scenes but dramatically speaking it has zero impact on the story (except that bad guy's trust Xander because they have seen him on the internet, yeah right). The angle in which a Government agency hires a criminal to do their dirty work is also unoriginal & the basic plot is rather absurd. Why does Yorgi want to kill so many people? Sure he has some speech about making the world free but what's in it for him & why kill millions to achieve it? Also what's to stop him being killed by the virus? He never indicates he has antidote, does he? xXx also has questionable morality, the opening sequence seems to say that video-games & rock music are great but then Xander has a running gag with a bad guy about his smoking & that it'll kill him. The character's are poor, Xander is far too one dimensional while the bad guy Yorgi is given virtually no motivation or background at all & the twist that Yelena is a Russian spy seems to have had little though behind it as it never amounts to anything significant. At over two hours in length it's a bit long but it does move along at a decent pace & there's plenty of action & eye candy here, sure xXx isn't deep or meaningful or even makes much sense (a solar powered submarine?) when you think about it but it does have a certain entertainment value.One good aspect of xXx are the action scenes which shine, from motorbikes jumping over exploding barns to jumping through barb wire to out snowboarding an avalanche to shoot-outs, to explosions, to para-sailing to car chases to driving cars off bridges to water-skiing a submarine xXx delivers on the action front. Apparently a stunt man was killed during the filming of one of the para-sailing scenes during a second take. Like the James Bond films themselves agent Xander Cage gets a Q like gadget man who gives him various things like x-ray binoculars & a fully loaded car that Bond would be proud to drive himself. While it's nicely shot & the stunts & effects are impressive the soundtrack is often awful, I hate loud rock music at the best of times & xXx certainly isn't the best of times if you know what I mean.Shot in 82 days on a supposed budget of $85,000,000 this was filmed in California, Austria & Prague. The acting isn't great, Vin Diesel is OK, Samuel L. Jackson is always watchable while Asia Argento is very attractive & makes for a hot love interest.xXx is a decent action film, it's rather brainless & has little to no plot worth mentioning but the action, stunts, the odd amusing one-liner & gorgeous Asia Argento keeps it watchable if nothing else. Followed by xXx State of the Union (2005) & soon to followed by xXx The Return of Xander Cage (2011) which is currently filming as I type this. "},{"Title":"Formula Taken From The James Bond","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The dynamics of this the movie xXx is that director Rob Cohen must have been following the style and formula of spy hero and icon James Bond. Though it is bombarded by the clichés of the typical Hollywood spy story, Cohen carries the film a little further by adding the heart-pumping excitement of extreme sports to the mix. James Bond, move over, and let Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) take over. xXx is more quicker, clever and entertaining than any of the Bond movies come together.Though it may not come to grips with political correctness, it paints a satisfying picture of modern machismo. Xander Cage who uses the nickname XXX, has similar intensity as Arnold Schwarzenegger or Sylvester Stallone, but actually comes off as being more clever in his dialogue. True Xander oozes with the stereotypical laden clichés depicted by action heroes before him, defying death, philandering with the ladies, damaging properties to save others from ruthless baddies and driving cool cars and carrying studly gadgets. The James Bond that we've known especially from the sixties often lured ladies and were often viewed as pawns to be saved and for the her4o to look good while saving the day. And to have some fun with them in the process. xXx is different that it goes beyond the surface of an average action flick. One of these days people will say that Rob Cohen has successfully resurrected a near dormant genre as it comes across as a case study self-identification. But the action is what everybody is truly wanting to see and...who could blame them? "},{"Title":"An Awesome Film!!!","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I can't believe I waited eight years to finally watch this movie. This movie was filled to the brim with action and special effects. Diesel plays an extreme sports enthusiast named Xander Cage who continually breaks the law. He is asked by NSA operative Augustus Gibbons to go undercover in the Czech Republic to find out about a group named 'Anarchy 99' led by Yorgi. Yorgi has a biological device and intends on releasing it in highly populated areas. When Gibbons tells Cage to back down and go home, he refuses and tries to stop Yorgi. Cage also begins falling in love with Yelena, who happens to be Yorgi's girlfriend. If you love action, and suspense, you'll love XXX!!! "},{"Title":"xXx is dumb fun that kind-of, sort-of works for the most part...  Certainly, a good rental...","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" From director Rob Cohen (Dragon The Bruce Lee Story; The Fast and the Furious) comes the insane-o 2002 action spectacle xXx (triple x), staring Vin Diesel and the beautiful Asia Argento.Xander Cage (Diesel) is a daredevil who is wanted by the police for a number of charges, all relating to his awe-inspiring (but very illegal) stunt-work. A memorable introduction for the character involves him stealing a car from a mean spirited, uber-conservative sleaze and driving it off a bridge, while he leaps to safety with a parachute as friends record it from the sidelines.At the same time, NSA Agent Augustus Gibbons (my favorite actor of all time, Samuel L. Jackson) is dealing with the loss of an agent looking for a mysterious computer chip in the Czech Republic. He decides to try a new initiative- sending in a new kind of undercover agent, one who isn't a trained operative, but rather is a real civilian with real street-smarts. And so, he lands on Xander.After Gibbons abducts Xander and places him into a few tests of will, smarts and physicality, Xander accepts the responsibility to infiltrate the mysterious Criminal Organization Anarchy 99, where he must stop their leader from making a deadly biological attack.The film is basically an MTV version of James Bond... rather than being suave, Xander's edgy... Rather than intricate gadgets, he's got a whole mess of guns and explosives... Rather than being charming, Xander is blunt but cool. Etc. Although it is hard not to notice the James Bond influence... Xander's got his own version of M, his own version of Q (in that he has a gadget-guy)... his own bond girl (in Argento's character, the presumable girlfriend of the villain). And the movie's very loose plot line is vaguely Bond-esquire.The acting is par for the most part. Diesel is a lot of fun to watch, and Argento and Jackson deliver decent performances. The supporting cast, mainly the villains, are very cliché but work.Rob Cohen's direction is really what elevates this film. While character development isn't really writer Rich Wilkes strong point here, he does supply Cohen and Diesel with enough spectacles to make this worth watching for the action alone. Cohen's guidance of the camera and actors in the many intricate action set-pieces and beats is impressive, and I'm willing to say that a scene involving a motorcycle chase during a drug-raid in Columbia is flat-out one of the best action-sequences I've ever seen.I guess it boils down to this... the film is a big, bloated silly piece of moronic fluff. But it is most certainly a very entertaining piece of big, bloated, silly, moronic fluff. I loved it when it first came out (when I was about 14) and I still enjoy watching it from time-to-time, at the age of 21. And I most certainly will see any new sequels involving Diesel's character in theaters. (I skipped the first sequel, xXx State of the Union, because it was the bad kind of fluff, where even the fluff went stale, and also most of the characters were replaced for no real reason.) Overall, I'm giving xXx a 7 out of 10. It's silly, but vastly entertaining. If you're in the mood for a light thrill-ride, then I'll guide you with our hero's catch-phrase- Welcome to the Xander-Zone! Aka, see xXx. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I hadn't seen this film before yesterday but when I looked through the television guide it looked like the least bad thing on. I'm rather glad I decided to watch it as it was quite fun. Sure the plot was sub-Bond and Vin Diesel is hardly the worlds greatest actor... he does however do what is required in a film like this.Vin Diesel plays extreme sports junkie Xander Cage who is recruited by the US security services when their own agents keep getting killed on a mission to infiltrate a group calling themselves Anarchy 99. As one would expect with such a film the group has an evil purpose, in this case to poison millions of people with a binary nerve gas.The plot is really just an excuse to show a series of dramatic stunts including parachuting from a car as it goes over a bridge parapet, doing spectacular motorcycle stunts while being shot at from helicopters and snowboarding in front of an avalanche. We also get Bond-style gadgets including a multi-purpose gun, binoculars that can see through walls and high explosives disguised as sticking plasters.If you want a couple of hours of mindless fun with great stunts and spectacular explosions then check this out. While Xander Cage will never challenge James Bond in the spy thriller stakes xXx is more entertaining than certain Bond films... there is no CGI surfing here. "}{"Title":"Don't think, just watch & listen!","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm neither an insane sports fanatic, nor sadly under the age of 40 - but I really love this movie. Yes it's hammier than miss piggy at a hog roast, but lets flag a cab and head for real street, what else was it going to be?I agree that no one's acting in this is stellar, but Vin is entertaining & the movie has a great sound track. Things move along at a good pace, and you don't have to think about it too much.So to recap, those looking for Oscar winning performances & a story that will leave you thinking about it for days, this isn't for you - but if you want something you can just switch on & not have to engage your brain, then this really could be for you.So if you like the Running Man, Under Siege & similar types of movies - check it out & get yourself the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Overall great re-release with one exception","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Well folks here we are again. As with all Hollywood movies that spawn a sequel, a re-release of the original movie is usually a precursor to the new film. The re-release is usually peppered with shameless tie-ins to the new film, and xXx Uncensored Unrated Director's Cut is no exception. This release is, however, does have advantages over the original release. The most notably being the 8 minutes of extra footage not seen in the theatrical release. Anyone who has the original DVD will recognize the additional footage as the deleted scenes from the first release. This might not seem like much of an improvement but the movie flows so seamlessly that its hard to spot the new footage and it does add to the overall tone of the movie. This release is a two disc set, with the typical making of and stunt featurettes that are a staple of action movies such as this. The release also includes the trailer for and a sneak peek at the new film. There is also a short that I consider to be the one notable blemish on an otherwise great re-release. WARNING If you are a big fan of this film like me, and do not wish to permenantly damage your opinion of this movie, I highly recommend you give serious consideration to watching the included The Final Chapter The Death Of Xander. As the title implies, this short tells of Xander's ultimate demise and is designed to bridge the two films. This short might not have been so bad had it not been for the gruesomeness and finality of our hero's death that leaves almost no chance for a surprise return. One wonders if this short was retribution from director Rob Cohen for Vin Diesel not doing the sequel. In conclusion, if your still reading, the re-release of this film is an improvement over the original with the additional footage but some of the bonus features are something to be desired or hated. Just depends on how big a fan you are. "},{"Title":"Bang bang, fire fire.","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx is directed by Rob Cohen and written by Rich Wilkes. It stars Vin Diesel, Asia Argento, Marton Csokas, Samuel L. Jackson & William Hope. It's shot mostly in Prague with Dean Semler on photography and Randy Edelman scores the music.Underground adrenaline sports hero Xander Cage has fractured just one too many laws. The secret service, in desperate need of agents tough enough to complete the most hazardous of missions, have Xander under threat of prison, something he can avoid if he gets to Prague and infiltrates Anarchy 99 and foil their fiendish terrorist plot.You can just imagine the meeting of minds at the lunch table for discussion on xXx. Right, so it looks like the James Bond franchise is heading downwards again, and this up coming Bourne thingy probably wont have any legs. Look guys, I really think there is a market opening for a kick ass secret agent movie. Lets get beefcake man mountain Vin Diesel to star, set it in a quality location, maybe Prague, and let all hell break loose. Slot in a foxy chick like Asia Argento to stir the loins of the thrash metal Satan worshippers, and put in a crazy Bondian villain intent on making the world implode.You know what? They went ahead and did it. Made for $70 million the film, in spite of divisive reviews, went on to make over $270 million Worldwide. The out shot is that xXx is just over two hours of disposable, unadulterated, explosive action fun. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Don't bother watching this stinker.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is a waste of time. First, the story lacks any semblance of intelligence. If you're the kind of person who craves action, and doesn't really care too much about thinking, then you might enjoy the first half of this movie about an extreme athlete who is recruited by some government agency to atone for breaking the law. However, holes in the plot become apparent to even the most caffeine-riddled video gamer or couch potato. Second, the action sequences are too long and pose as a never-ending showcase for Diesel's character to reinforce what you already know He's and extreme athlete. Some of the stunts would have been better served to move the story along, rather than keeping it stagnate. Finally, as much as it pains me to say this, one of the worst performances was by Jackson. For a guy who cranked out great characters in such movies as Pulp Fiction, Red Violin and Unbreakable, he sure looked disinterested when reciting his lines in this picture. I had to stop watching it after one hour. Save yourself the rental fee. "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I can say that I enjoyed the movie, however the ending SUCKED!! what were they thinking?! if you plan on watching this movie, turn it off after 2/3rds of it is over. Then, dream up your own ending! it'll be 50 times better than what they came up with. Watching the ending honestly made me very frustrated, because I could of rented something a lot better. Vin Diesel is not very believable actor.. he's probably as popular as he is today, because of his body. The stunts in the movie were awesome, which is probably the only thing that kept me from turning it off. The over all plot wasn't bad. If you want to see Diesel perform some pretty cool stunts, this is for you. If you want something a little more, this movie won't deliver. "},{"Title":"There is something about this film","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I realize this film is not a great film but it makes me think of a line in Dawson's Creek. I don't remember which episode, but a film critic (I believe the actress' name is Sarah Shahi but I am not 100% positive) asks Dawson what his film is. He then answers with a typical film guru's answer and she tells him no, not that kind of movie. What film do you like even though you know it is bad. What film do you find yourself watching when no other film will do. She tells Dawson hers is Hardball. She then goes on to explain how she can't help but feel for the kids of a rough neighborhood and that she gets choked up at the end. Anyway, XXX is that film for me. I can't explain to you why I like it but I do. I would be interested in knowing if this film is that for anyone else, or what that film is for others. "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie with a friend in the theater when it came out and we both thought it was the most hilarious, ridiculous thing we had ever seen. When I rented it the next year with the same friend and some other buddies and watched it at my house, we thought it sucked. Very odd. How does a movie have no replay value whatsoever? Since then I've tried watching it again and it really does suck. So I guess my friend and I witnessed a rare thing in the movie world. A movie that works only once and then decays immediately afterwards. The ultimate in disposable culture. You watch it once and then throw it away. Maybe its because we saw it in the theater, which added to spectacle, I don't know. Its definitely one of the only times I seen a movie and enjoyed it and then seen it again and couldn't stand it. Odd. "},{"Title":"Pretty juvenile...","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Did anyone else notice the RPG - type weapon that the Vin Diesel character uses near the end? Did you happen to see that it's simply a modified SONY camcorder? How cheesy is that? Was the props budget running out by then or what? This movie was I think the beginning of the end for Vin Diesel action career. He did well in Saving Private Ryan, but then for some reason started to shoot down his own credibility by accepting action roles that only barely pubescent males would appreciate. Too much implausible action with too little substance. Someone earlier compared it to James Bond style. At least 007 films have a story. "},{"Title":"not every movie has to be logic..this one is just fun","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Some people may think that this movie is totally not logic but to me it is great. I like movies with a good story and some logic but sometimes I just want to see a movie in which thinks explode and were's a lot of shooting and no logic because I just want to watch it and not think about it. Movies are made to entertain people and to enjoy yourself watching it not to take it apart in pieces and afterward yell that it's not logical.... Besides..who needs logic when there's a man like Vin Diesel in a movie...(sorry but I am a woman after all...) And hey who cares if there's a weapon made of a handy cam...don't look at that as an unlogical thing but look at it as a smart idea...would you think of that yourself? Probably not. And would you take an action movie seriously if the explosions were small... if the explosions were really realistic? Sometimes they just have to make it bigger than it would be in reality to make it worth watching and to make it exciting. So don't go examinating every movie...just enjoy. "},{"Title":"It's a fun ride","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" It's very difficult to find a good action movie these days. Everyone is going in the wrong direction when creating action films. It's not like the old days of Commando or Rambo. This movie brings that era back just a little bit. Although it's not an acting masterpiece, it is a roller-coaster ride of action and fun surprises. VD is no James Bond but he is definitely a rough and tough action star. The special effects were great although some of the action was very unrealistic. I liked the gadgets used in the film, which is what makes if feel like a Bond movie. There was a moment in the film where I had a Fast and Furious flash back, but I let it slide. Vd is up right up there with Arnold and Stalone in my book of favorite cheesy action stars. The movie has it's repeat value, meaning I can watch it over and over again. If you're looking for great action ride, then this movie is it. "}{"Title":"A cheesy wannabee 'James Bond'  film!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The film xXx is the poorest excuse for an action film I have ever seen. I admit this film had a few good scenes (ie.When Xander Cage/ Vin Diesel parachuted from his car, when his car came off the bridge and when the avalanche was following Vin Diesel while he was skiing down the ski-slope) for the stunt work in this film was fantastic, but overall this film was a shallow Hollywood Hype that only a poser would enjoy. Vin Diesel is the most Idiotic so called 'Actor' I have ever seen in Hollywood. Not only his acting was dreadful in this film, but he has no originality and persona of his own. A least actors like Sylvester Stallone and Jean-Claude Van Dam have their own characters, but all Vin Diesel is, is a mish-mash of all action actors 'In one'. To sum Vin Diesel up, I'd put him on the same level as Mr.T and Steven Siegal as they too are nothing but muscle-bound thugs that pose themselves through Hollywood. At least the film 'If looks could kill/ Teen Agent'(A James Bond parody) with Richard Grieco had aspects of sophistication in it, but unlike the film xXx, this film had no sophistication, whatsoever, for the directors of this film tried to make xXx into a new age sophisticated American James Bond sequence, but instead became a boring and ridiculous poser film. Who knows - if the directors of xXx changed the storyline around and chose somebody other than Vin Diesel to play the role of Xander Cage, like Tom Cruise or Christian Bale, maybe this film would have been something worthwhile, but unfortunately this film was a joke. If your between the ages of 6 - 15, than I'd recommend you to watch it, but if your any older, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Okay!  I get the point already!","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX opens with an unnecessary 15 minute reassurance that we are, indeed, watching an action flick . . . as if Vin Diesel's resume did not already give that away . . . as if we somehow missed all the action-cliché trailers for this movie . . . as if the film's poster didn't broadcast it. Not since the Matrix has a film gone to this length to cram its agenda down it's audience's throat.Dare I recite the formula we all know for action films? The tried and true 50-year old plot 'twists' that are insultingly predictable? Nah. I'll spare you that one since I don't complain when films I like tread these waters.First and foremost, nearly overshadowing everything else, is the terrible script, which was written for the sole intent of cramming as many stunts as possible into a two hour film. Maybe were I into extreme sports I'd be appreciative of the fact a director made a film crossing extreme sports with James Bond and not watch while questioning the logic of sticking oneself in front of an avalanche solely for the thrill of snowboarding away from it. Then again, maybe not.The overabundance of stunt sequences are well done. The geometry and narrative of the action sequences are crystal clear in their direction, so congrats to Cohen there . . . it's just a shame that I found these action sequences more boring than monologues. In his effort to make an adrenaline ride where one does not have time to get up and go to the bathroom, I saw plenty of opportunities to break away from the film. I honestly do not believe that putting more stunts, more chase scenes, more action sequences into a film makes it a more exciting film; it makes it silly.On to the acting . . . you know what? On second thought let's not go there.In watching, I sense the cast is more capable than the film's narrative and writing, unfortunately XXX seems to have gone into equal overdrive for its characters. We get silly dumbed down characters who I feel would make an easy transition to an animated series. I wanted to see serious intelligence characters with more subtlety, but hey, what else is a viewer to expect in this world where the name of the game is 'extreme'? Within XXX's world, with the intentions of the film and considering this is not the film to showcase what these actors are capable of, Argento, Diesel, Csokas, and Jackson did very well.Cohen wanted to bring to the screen an 'experience' the audience has never seen before. I would honestly like to 'experience' a good Cohen movie.  "},{"Title":"Nothing fantastic. But Marton was great though.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations when I watched the movie on the DVD recently. Cars. Women. Sex. Drugs. Biological Warfare. We've heard them all and they have manifested in one way or another in all those typical (and mediocre) James Bond films.Vin Diesel was a disappointment. True, he may have done all of the stunts himself, but it takes more than a nerve of steel to impress me. You would, of course, need real acting talent which Mr. Diesel sadly lacks in. It is a shame. With that body and shiny head, it should have taken my attention away from his severe lack in acting capability. It should have. But it didn't.Marton Csokas on the other hand, is the saving grace of this otherwise terrible film. A buff body and a handsome face does not an actor make (Mr. Diesel, are you listening?) but in Csokas's case he's got it all, making a convincing and three dimensional portrayal of Yorgi, the villain we all love to hate... and he certainly adds to the yum factor to the movie as well.In conclusion, watch the movie. But don't expect too much from it. If like me, you wonder what the heck you were doing watching something like this, just look out for Yorgi/Marton and all will be well I promise.PS Speaking of which, why wasn't he featured in the DVD???  "},{"Title":"Good in a popular way","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was sold on Vin Diesel's appeal and not much else. I liked it, but it's one of those movies where you just have to. They make all these action films with your favorite stars and you support them cuz they have people you like. I love Samuel L. Jackson and Vin. Both of them together are a good movie. The action was great and you got the sense Vin wasn't acting. He really seems to be a jacka** like that. I hear reports that he is. Anyways, Asia was cool, but she seem freaky and weird in a not-so-good way. I like Marton Csokas cuz he's a Xena veteran, but he was actually good as the demented villain. But, it's the usual jacka** saves the world and gets the girl all in under 10 minutes. Very cliche and done before, but you can still get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":" **","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel is considered a Hollywood bad boy now. Asia Argento isn't really mentioned much. Although many people dismiss this movie, I don't believe it to be so bad. It's a fair action movie that is forgettable however. I can't believe it's spawning a sequel. I give XXX a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's just a bit of fun!","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" There are so many who criticize this film for it's James Bond rip-off qualities and general coincidence driven plot, but to be honest... isn't this the whole point?! This film doesn't take itself seriously and that's what I liked about it. Admittedly as a Vin Diesel fan I would have enjoyed it regardless, but it was fun-filled stuff with a fit bloke thrown in for the ladies and a sexy Russian-accented bird in little clothing for the lads!If you just watch the film for what it is, a tongue-in-cheek action movie, rather than over-analyzing it's dramatic qualities, you'll love every minute! "},{"Title":"Film location Prague","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One funny detail when the Czech Police attack the mafia headquarters, they arrive in the cars bearing the sings and name of the Municipal Police. It is funny to see Municipal Police with bazookas shooting to the mafia; in reality Municipal Police have only competence for minor offences - they mainly give tickets for wrong parking or they help school children to cross the street on the way to school.But on the whole I was glad that this was one of the few movies where Prague locations represent Prague, and not another city, as the case is in many other cases-) "},{"Title":"More Wadka!","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is hilarious and I recommend it to anyone who wants to watch something and fry their brain at the same time.  C'mon, don't tell me you didn't love the Elf dude from LTR (Yorgi) and his ghetto Russian accent - awesome! Love Vin too - he may look like a dog but he's got a really nice set of pipes so if you're a chick you'll totally dig it - rarrrrrr ) "},{"Title":"WTF","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Was this movie about. Vin Diesel in the beginning steals some guys car then he video tapes how the guy hates video games and how he hates him. We see cops chasing after him he goes to the side boom crashes into this thing gets his parachute out then he gets to this place with Tony Hawk. I was like when I saw him what the hell is he doing in this movie. Then theres this pointless action which we see in lots of movies. Overall * out of **** Vin should have thougt about fast and the furious 2 because a lot of people missed him. "},{"Title":"Lack of sex !!!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is good - but the only thing that misses in the film is SEX ! The so called sex scene between Vin Diesel and a dancer starts very sexy, but in the end we all get dissapointed.The movie is like a modern James Bond - but i have to say that i prefer much more The Fast and The Furious.8/10 "}{"Title":"Maybe NOT James Bond but an acceptable substitute","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was somewhat leery about all the hoopla surrounding this movie but just had to see it for myself. All in all, a good Saturday evening popcorn flik with lots of action and some Ahnold-like humor(remember Ahll be back?). The one-liners are quick and will be missed if you're not paying attention. And since another reviewer already mentioned it, the avalanche scene towards the end just doesn't get it. It IS a great scene, but why do these disasters always get the bad guys and never the star?(I know-because that's the way they wrote it!!!!!!!) The music is hard driving to go with the rest of the movie. The stunts are some of the best I've seen-even better than some of the best Bond stunts. This movie was lots of fun and is worth buying on DVD, as I did, so you can go back and pick up all the great stuff you missed the first, second or third time. I rate this a solid 8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched xXx last night and I did not like it at all..It was to predictable but funny.He likes to kick ass and he does,well because he is Vin Diesel of course. There were some really cool parts though..I loved the cars.I give it a 6/10* "},{"Title":"great 5 stars","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love this movie. Along with all of Vin Diesel's movies. But then again you get a good looking guy, with his build what woman wouldn't? Its one of the best movies ever. IT is one of the best action packed movies with a test of a love scene that has been out in a long time. Every movie that he does is great. "},{"Title":"TRIPLE POOR","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  TRIPLE POORWe've seen it before some psycho doesn't agree with the world order, secures some biological weapons and tries to change the way things are going on. Of course, he never succeeds, because we always have a hero armed to the teeth, fighting against all dangers and taking many risks for his country and ultimately for the entire world. What we get is an explosive fight between the good and the bad ones, with a lot of gun shots, hot pursuits and everything the special effects allow.OK, sometimes we need an adrenaline kick, cars flying in the air, buildings exploding, furious muscles spreading fists and bullets around etc. In this case, the story is almost a minor thing, it has a beginning and an end, which is in 99% of the cases the same the good guys eliminate the bad ones and save the world again. What matters is the way the story develops and is shown to us. The elements of the movie must create an equilibrium in order to make the action watchable.In XXX everything is poor. The script (following an idea that has been cooked and overcooked by many other movies) is full of clichés and has nothing to be praised for. The direction is weak and rather messes around. Vin Diesel is an extra in this movie; the only thing that `impresses' is his beefy tattooed body. The stuff he's doing in XXX is something for Pierce Brosnan & co. Vin is rather a street fighter, maybe something like in `Knockaround Guys'. Asia Argento (the Russian secret agent) is as bad as her accent. The ex-military clique is unconvincing and no real harm as bad guys. And what is Samuel L. Jackson doing in this movie ?! Oh, I got it he was also in `Deep Blue Sea' 'on duty' (who watched it, knows what I'm talking about).I don't have to talk about flaws anymore, because the entire movie is a flaw in the cinematography.My rating 4 out of 10 (for the team's efforts to get our money with a pile of muscles, some stunts and a very good actor who seems to have got lost among Hollywood's pay offices).  "},{"Title":"Nothing special about this movie","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Every time I see a trailer for this, I cringe on how overrated this movie is.  The entire story was so far fetched.  Vin Diesel is so overrated and Samuel L. Jackson looks like he is useless in the middle of this.  The stunts are very fake and overblown, particularly where Vin Diesel tries to outrun an avalanche.After all, these types of movies are meant to be eye candy and not bother with the story.It wasn't crap, but is wasn't good either.  It's not a complete waste of time, but I'll probably forget about it in a few months time.4/10.  "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was told by a friend to see XXX because it is so horrible.  Well... he was right!  This movie is so bad that if you are not saying bullsh*t every other second, then you're listening to Vin Diesel say some cheesy one liners.I can't say that I wasted my time, because I laughed my ass off.  The sad part is that this is NOT a comedy. "},{"Title":"How disappointing!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  (MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER OR TWO BUT THEN THE WHOLE MOVIE IS A SPOILER)I remember when this movie first came into theatres and I was so pumped to go see it. Unfortunately I didn't get a chance to go to the cinema and I am glad I didn't waste my $15 to $20 on going to see this film. Here you have Vin Diesel (The Fast and The Furious) playing some kind of athlete that is recruited for some job or so, whatever it is. The trailer looked a lot better to watch than this film itself. What the hell went wrong in this film?! It was so dumb and stupid, the plot I'm referring to. One minute you're sitting there watching XXX about to punch or blow some other guy's lights out and then, wham! It's all a test. The movie was just not what I expected. Vin Diesel, no doubt, I think he's a really talented actor with a super hot body. He was better in The Fast and The Furious. By far. Vin Diesel could have done so much better than to sign on to do this crappy movie. They should have put somebody with no talent to play XXX, not try to ruin Vin Diesel. This movie could have been a lot better but like I said before, it was the biggest disappointment I've ever seen from Vin Diesel. He could have been in a much better action film. He even got $10,000,000 or so I heard for this pile of bullcrap, huh, his gain. I would love to know who came up with such a shallow and flat story and then to have Rob Cohen direct it, someone is trying to ruin his film directing career too. Asia Argento, she was good. I liked her character (Yelena). I like the way she kept Xander Cage waiting and wanting more of her, that's the way to do it. Half way through this movie, all I could say is, But wait, this is the pile of s**t my friend told me was so good that I'd go see it again and again?. Whoo, somebody wasn't watching the movie. I hear that they are going to make a sequel, due out in 2005, I hope to God, the sequel will be better because most of the time, the first movie is usually better but sometimes the sequel just delivers (X2-X men United, The Matrix Reloaded). I don't think I could ever watch this movie again. Half the time I was watching it, ugh!!!, gosh!! This movie reeked of smelly diapers full of crap. This movie was so stupid that even a baby would cry while looking at it! This was the worst movie of 2002 and it deserves a 0000000.1 out of 100! DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME AND MONEY ON RENTING OR BUYING THIS STUPID MOVIE ON VHS OR DVD! "},{"Title":"i thought that was a preview collage!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  ---------------------------Spoiler------------------First of all that movie changes plot elements and introduces new ones so quickly it's like you are watching a preview of several movies at once. It goes something like see diesel fight some rebels vietnam style, see  diesel get sent to make a car deal with some terrorists, see diesel discover they are building a bio weapon sub, see diesel go blow up their headquarters and save the day. YAWN!!! Its unoriginal, not even trying to twist the so overused hollywood plots not one bit, so it is predictable and action scenes cheesy. I actually just changed the channel before that movie ended. If you are a Diesel fan by all means watch it, might make you happy. Else just rent some old Rambo episode. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Awful. Just awful.","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't help liking Vin Diesel even though his acting is wobbly, but that doesn't stop this film from being a real turkey.There's certainly non-stop action, with some great stunt work, but that's all there is. Crazy as it may sound, I started to find it boring because there was just nothing to string all these stunts together. I'm sure it would have worked a lot better as, say, an 85 minute run time.It even managed the near impossible of making Sam L look bad. To be honest, I'm amazed he went anywhere near it. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the worst films I have ever seen.Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage a muscle bound extreme sports fanatic who becomes an agent for the NSA, an organisation so short of talent that they enlist tattooed 'Right said Fred' look-alikes.The plot is pathetic and predictable, the dialogue embarrassing and the acting truly awful. If you want to waste two hours watching a potato faced action hero who's main ability is to be able to find perfectly placed ramps which enable him to leap walls, cars and buildings go ahead.The only truly amazing thing about this film is that Samuel L. Jackson agreed to be in it. Mr Jackson you should be ashamed.  "}{"Title":"Worst Movie of 2002","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If this had been a parody, it would have been good.  But it takes itself too seriously.  All the action movie cliches are here.  Pure garbage.  Had this movie come out in 1986, I would understand.  But I thought the movie industry had maybe grown and learned something.   "},{"Title":"Do not waste your money on this movie.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the worst films I have ever seen.Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage a muscle bound extreme sports fanatic who becomes an agent for the NSA, an organisation so short of talent that they enlist tattooed 'Right said Fred' look-alikes.The plot is pathetic and predictable, the dialogue embarrassing and the acting truly awful. If you want to waste two hours watching a potato faced action hero who's main ability is to be able to find perfectly placed ramps which enable him to leap walls, cars and buildings go ahead.The only truly amazing thing about this film is that Samuel L. Jackson agreed to be in it. Mr Jackson you should be ashamed.  "},{"Title":"The Two Week's Notice of action movies of 2002","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm referring to action movies taking place today, not ones taking place in other times (meaning The Scorpion King doesn't apply) Anyway, at times it seemed like the characters were just, well, just...THERE. I mean, why were they there? They all just seemed to pop out of nowhere and suddenly become involved in the plot. Triple X was just there, and then the police/FBI whatever just came out of nowhere and said he was the right man for the job. The least they could have done was just tell more of how they met Triple X and if they'd been following him. I mean, just where did all these characters come from and WHY? Very poor introductions.Or in other words, it's the Poor Man's James Bond. Die Another Day was much better than this. I hate it how that one stunt guy died because he was working in this movie!! That's awful!!! Still, some good fight scenes and a little bit of good character development give this a 3/10 for me. P.S. On the plane, Triple X said, Where's my peanuts?. In the episode Fishy Business of Cartoon Network's Courage The Cowardly Dog Eustace said, Where's my peanuts?. Coincidence? "},{"Title":"Things NEVER seem to change in Hollywood","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow, what a film reel full of eye-candy. Poor Vinny, this guy is about as confused as PeeWee Hermans' parents. The movie was typical. Hot girls, hot cars, action, stuff blows up, people die, people backstab, yadda yadda yadda. I read in a GQ article that Mr. Diesel is looking to go beyond the sex-symbol stardom and work on movies that really give attention to his, acting ability. Well brotha, if you want people to respect you as an ACTOR, keep your shirt on and don't take, blow up stuff, movies. As for this film, I'd give it one star out of four because I'm sick of seeing non-depth movies that rake in enough money to make the film houses happy enough to throw it into more, blow up stuff, movies. I can't wait for XXX2, or XXX3, or XXXX, or whatever clever thing these producers come up with next. Do me a favor Hollywood hotshots, attempt making a film with depth. O wait, I'm sorry, I apologize for asking you to do something so rational.  "},{"Title":"Are You serious?","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If You are serious, forget about this film. Kids may take it seriously, but I will not! Come on, folks this is supposed to be an update of a series that was not serious itself, so how can You believe it is supposed to be taken seriously, except by some very innocent people? Really, it's about sitting back and having a few laughs! "},{"Title":"A cheap Bond?!?!","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, what can I say... I liked Vin Diesel in Pitch Black, but then I don't know what happened?!? The movie itself is awful, a cheap Bond-look-a-like. The story is poor, the soundtrack is poor, the dialog is awful - all actors are really bad... even Samuel L. Jackson can't fix it. He must be in it for the money.It get a bit better in the end, so I'll give it 4 of 10! "},{"Title":"Action but the Fiction","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I was watching the movie, I haven't get bored. However, the reason why I could watch this movie without getting bored is not the story or the characters of the movie. The reason was the continuous action within the movie. I mean the fiction of the events and the binds between them are ridiculous.  So, if you want to watch this kind of movie, I will not advise this movie. my vote was 5 over 10. "},{"Title":"apallingly appalling","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film could really be summed up in one word Appalling. Van Diesel plays the archetypical 'action hero.' Yeah you've got it, the one whose status is big muscles and has 'I can't act' written all over his face! The trailer for the film looked absolutely awesome, which is the only 30 seconds worth watching for the entire film.I would love to explain in more detail the story of the film, but quite frankly I was too busy laughing at how pathetic the plot was to even remember.If you are a Samual L Jackson fan don't torture yourself by sitting through the film, not even the master himself can do it justice. Nevertheless as taste is unaccountable I can only recommend you rent this film from your local blockbuster store or whomever!  "},{"Title":"Movie for the ADD kiddies","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I nearly turned off this mediocre action movie in the first 15 mintues, I stayed the course since I did rent this movie and the longer it went, it did get a bit better.  Since it is obviously marketed and aimed for the hyperactive, sugar-fueled, extreme in-your-face, A.D.D. kids of todays youth who really couldn't care if the story had substance, what they got was some dude, really cool stuff in the movie.  And Vin Diesel couldn't act his way out of a paper bag.  The only redeeming qualities of this movie are the locations, and choice of female actresses.  5 out of 10 rated. "},{"Title":"This should've just been called Product for Teenage Boys","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll keep things short. I'm not a fan of Vin Diesel but then again, I don't despise the guy. He has potential and I'm pretty sure we're gonna see something one day in the future that'll make us all reassess his importance in the cinema world (I'm laughing writing this. I guess I only half mean it). Now, with that being said, I have to say that if he keep churning out crap like this, he can kiss whatever career he has goodbye and sign up for the Schwarzenegger/ Stallone Where'd My Career Go? fund. While the movie has some admittedly cool things (the avalanche scene comes to mind), it is ultimately nothing more than a product created for teenage boys to fantasize about. Ridiculous stunts? Check. Hot women? Check. Cool gadgets? Check. X-treme sports tie-in, complete with cameos by skate park heroes Tony Hawk and Mat Hoffman? Check. You can actually enjoy this if you turn your internal suspension-of-disbelief meter down to zero. You'll realize it part of the way in. It's the kind of movie where you see things happen that cause you to look at the person next to you with a gimme a break smirk on your face. The story is standard espionage fare and nothing you haven't seen before, here with an X-treme sports twist. It works to some extent and only because the movie itself seems aware of it's own ridiculousness. And it's LOADS better than the Fast and the Furious. That movie cause me so much pain from laughing that I may not be able to sit upright ever again. But enough of that. Vin Diesel provides a serviceable amount of charisma, sure but there's something about him that makes me think that he drools a lot. Maybe it's the dozen or so scenes where he's standing around with his mouth open. I'm sorry but I just can't believe that the XXX character as played by him is as smart and perceptive as the diner scene wants you to believe. Sorry, not happening. Asia Argento is damn fine and she deserves better than this. Or maybe she doesn't. In either case, she should email me. My email is always open. Bottom line, if you want to see an empty headed action flick, this one's got your number. It's a valiant attempt at knocking James Bond off of the genre hill but.... it ain't happening here. Definitely not with this movie. It is a completely unbelieveable action flick but it has a couple of things keeping it from being a total bust. Like Asia Argento. Mmmmm, yummy. Vin, we're watching. And close your mouth. Rating **1/2 out of *****.  "}{"Title":"By far one of the most idiotic movies ever made.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  May contain spoilers, but I doubt it.I had heard from a friend that XXX was supposed to be the Bond for the twenty-first century. Ten minutes into this movie and i realized how full of it he is. This movie and Vin Diesel don't come close to the Impact Dr. No and super-cool Sean Connery had in 1962. Yes, there has been a few bad Bond actors, but even the lamented Roger Moore or George Lazenby beats Vin Diesel. Pierce Brosnan and the rival production of XXX, Die Another Day, is worth viewing. This movie is overridden with crummy stunts and one liners. Plus, the character portrayed by Vin Diesel is a big ugly brute, with no suave characteristics whatsoever. The movie music is terrible. I strongly recommend that you save these two hours of your life, and skip seeing this movie. Or better yet, watch it, and then rent the 007 thriller Goldfinger. "},{"Title":"the worst script in cinema history","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  why do people waste precious moments of their lives making this tosh. Bond is boring enough, do we really need an another secret agent? no no no no. The script must rank as being up there with the worst, with some of the most horrific dialogue ever put on screen. Made up of unfunny gags, and even unfunnier gags, with the occasional oh please, he didn't just say that did he? gags. Vin Diesal is capable of better things, and he handles the action well, but why oh why does the director persist in showing us a stunt in 30 different angles. After 3 it gets old. The comic relief in the film is a guy who makes you want to rub your head against a cheese grater just so you dont have to hear him talk. It's just all very bad, plotwise, just everything. I'm not gonna waste my breathe talking about this disaster. "},{"Title":"Stinks out Loud.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Deisel, oh how your career began with such promise.  Your turn in Saving Private Ryan was an example of what a good actor could do with a very small part.  Pitch Black was a suprisingly suspenfull horror flick. Everything else you've done since that time has been, not only dissapointing, but flat out awful. XXX is the worst of the bunch.  None of the actors make an attempt to perform here.  Perhaps it's because they realize how moronic their lines really are.  Samuel L Jackson, such a solid actor, must have needed money to take on this colossal piece of schlock. People, stop going to see movies like this so they'll stop making movies like this.  Force good actors like Jackson and Diesel to take on challenging projects that might just be worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"XXX - nothing new, nothing special","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How many secret agents does the world need? Some excellent action scenes but poor acting all round, especially X and Yelana. The story was so week it was almost embossing to watch, will XXX 2 be any better I doubt it! "},{"Title":"Xtra time needed on plot","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How disappointing, I was all ready to watch this self proclaimed adrenaline filled spy film as the trailers really beefed up the action.What I sat through can only be described as a string of over the top stunts strung together in a series of wacky ways that do not really further the story with a sub James Bond plot that would have die hard spy fans asking for the directors head.Vin Diesel was not convincing in his role as a sensitive daredevil ex con. He should stick to some roles with less speaking.You will find some parts of the film entertaining, like when the completely wooden barn explodes into a ball of flames as if it had been laced with glycerine, or when Vin is seen wearing a Yeti whilst walking around Prague.The stunts although quite spectacular at times were really over the top and would have done better if strung together onto a video of it's own entitled Just stunts. "},{"Title":"The dialogue made me squirm","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There's plenty of action in this but that alone doesn't make a good film. Although some parts of it was enjoyable, what annoyed me was the script. A lot of the dialogue was too cheesy for my tastes (pardon the pun) and the one liners didn't really hit it off. The acting was a lot to be desired too. If you want a film with action then go see this; if your expectations are a little higher and expect a good story line or good acting then you'll be sorely disappointed. (3.5 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible, terrible","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTLet's make it clear that the only reason why this movie even has a overall rating of almost 6 is because of women that find Vin Diesel hot.That beeing said, this is an awful movie.  I watched it twice.  not by interest but simply becasue the first I saw it, I was too frustrated to keep watching and I am pretty sure my dvd player was asking me to put him of of his misery.This movie is packed with stunts that only Superman or James Bond could do. The dialogue is idiotic and jam packed with cliché's.What made me run screaming the first time I watched it was a scene between Triple X and his love interest.  When she askes him if he remebered what she said when they kissed...  and answers I lied...  COME ON!!!  We are we continuously exposed to these boring movies.  Movies are supposed to be about art, not about $$$.This movie is the winner of my personal worst-movie-of-all-time award. It ranks right up there with others like Pearl Harbor, Spiderman and Star Trek Nemesis. "},{"Title":"no brain","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was an awsome blockbuster. I'm really disapointed with that fact. This means that a lot of people loved it and this movie is only for no brain teens. No story, nothing good in it. I'm really afraid they gonna do a sequel. "},{"Title":"pitiful","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  thank god everyone mostly agrees that this movie sucks. it was totally unbelievable and predictable. Are we to believe that this guy simply tosses a couple of hand grenades over his shoulder while on a mountain and within seconds causes an avalanche and totally recreates the landscape. how in the hell are we supposed to believe that someone, while on a motorbike in mid-air, would calmly raise his gun, aim and hit his mark. This movie, like so many others- makes no sense at all. what are peoples motives in these films. Why doesn't Xander just want to go home. What drives these bad guys. why are these henchmen so loyal to their leader. what's with all the nude women? what kind of society was being portrayed there? I'm sick top my stomach. don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"What a hottie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The dark and mysterious Asia Argento is sex and fire all rolled up into one. Her past is a strange one, which you can read for yourself at the following link. She has some nice photos here as well www.darkdreams.org/asia.htmlI hope to see more of her (literally) in the xXx sequel due out in 2004. "}{"Title":"Rubbish in a glossy print","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A new generation Bond, new generation Arnold. called it anything but it was not more than just another big budget action flick with muscle lead actor and sexy sidekick try to save the world with the help of...SFX. nothing special with the plot, just some bad guy trying to do something bad to the world and our hero have to stop him (what else?). Vin Diesel acting is nothing special and the usually reliable Sam Jackson do nothing worth to help the movie. Even the SFX was an awfull one considered the budget and the effort (to make as many cash as possible)they out into it. Its a quite good bet if you want to impress your next door neighbour with your state of the art sound system. If not, just say Pass.  "},{"Title":"This might be one of the worst movies in the world!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anyone who gave this movie more than a 2 out of 10 is crazy. The dialog was crap, the acting was crap, and the stunts I had to laugh at.  I thought I was watching the X games.When I saw XXX on TV I was hoping for porn.  I knew the acting would be better that way, but I was sadly mistaken, and to think they are making a sequel?!?!?Is Hollywood trying to make its viewers dumber?  Please DO NOT see this one or the sequel.  It makes me cringe just to think of it. "},{"Title":"XXX Was Horrible!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the movie, and I sat through another annoying session of Vin's nasal dialogue.  The movie's plot was weak, and even the special effects were poor for the times.  I saw him in The Fast and the Furious, and if it wasn't for the nice cars and intense racing scenes, the movie would've been a total flop.  I hope Vin takes on a better script soon! "},{"Title":"One line from XXX says it all, Bitches...come!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the worst films I ever submitted myself to watching.  This movie isn't bad/good, its just horrible; somehow all its fabricated, macho coolness is meant to be taking seriously.After about five minutes into the film, a friend and I invented a drinking game.  Here are a few of the rules.  1) Any meaningless challenges to authority uttered by Vin (drink), 2) Anytime you wondered what exactly Vin was doing on the screen and didn't know why he was doing it (drink), 3) Any act of mysogyny (drink), 4) and last but not least, anytime myself or my friend got that mutual, cinematic 'bad feeling' (drink).Needless to say, I had to drop out of the game after about thirty minutes.The way the film markets itself within its own context is also disgusting. For example, Vin's many references to video games, which seems to say to an audience, I like video games just like you--we are cool.  I have no idea how to tackle that crap.  It is just weird.I can't believe they are making another cinematic fiasco--XXX2-The Final Insult.  The first one left me feeling like a hog staring at a watch.So when the next film hits a theater near you, don't be a bitch and waste your money on XXX squared.  Demand a little better from Hollywood, folks.C. Milazzo       "},{"Title":"What were they smokin' when they came up with this?","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie by far takes the cake for stupidity. It has no plot, lousy characters, stupid one-liners, and such crappy action that when I think about it I can't even put it into words because there aren't any. Honestly it is that bad.I won't really get into details about what exactly happens in this picture, you can see for yourself at your own risk. One thing that bothers me though is people who actually think xXx comes close to BOND. IT DOES NOT COME CLOSE TO BOND! The people who say this have probably never watched a Bond flick. The only way this monstrosity compares is with gadgets. By that I mean that all the gadgets in xXx are probably Q's rejects, because they're so stupid. Anyway I won't waste any more of your time and mine over this nonsense.      "},{"Title":"Doesn't even live up to the genre it's name invokes","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is a disgrace. Conceived by Rich Wilkes (The Stoned Age) as a revamp of the James Bond legend, Cohen's film is a vacuum of time, talent, and money.I am having trouble coming up with a concise, clever way of maligning this film, simply because there is so little right with it. Even the near-100 million dollar production and its effects look cheap. The film is a concoction of buzz words and fads led by rising star who somehow manages to be out-classed by Arnold Schwarzengger.1/10 "},{"Title":"Fun all the way","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was a riot to watch.Such an entertaining tongue-in-cheek blockbuster I hadn't seen for quite a while - I have read very naive reviews which seemed to be criticising it as if it were attaining to high art status, which is clearly ridiculous. It put the latest Bond offering to shame, as it clearly wasn't trying to take itself seriously. The film as a whole had a lot of energy, and Vin Diesel's screen presence is huge - he really does carry the film with style and panache.In its own terms, the film succeeds - 8/10 stars from me... "},{"Title":"Better than I expect, but still mediocre","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't sit the whole way through XXX, but I think I saw enough (about an hour and a half total) to judge it fairly.I'm not a big fan of Vin Diesel, though I liked him in Saving Private Ryan before he was the next big thing.  Nonetheless, he wasn't as painful here as elsewhere.  Some of the action sequences were good.  Samuel L. Jackson was good as always, though out of place.That saidFor those of you saying Xander Cage is going to replace James Bond ARE YOU F**#! NUTS!?!?!?!  This film isn't even in the shadow of Bond.  Die Another Day, a quite below-par Bond outing, is still ten times better than this.For every good scene, there is an equally painful scene.  The opening scene with the Bond-type agent being mown down at a trash concert is completely stupid; I don't find a bad guy who can shoot someone in the back a particularly menacing one.  Martin Csokas, as Yorgi, is even more hammy than Alan Rickman in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves (and not in a good way).  The scene with the would-be Q (I forget who plays him) does inspire a chuckle or two - and that's the funniest scene in the movie.Equally odd is the scene where Xander has sex with the whore provided by Yorgi (who poll dances on a bedpost) while crappy music plays in the background (Get your hoe! and I want to lick were the only words I could make out).  This scene is just surreal; afterwards, I thought it was just a bad dream . . .Though this was NOT horrible, it certainly doesn't even come close to Bond.  Could Vin Diesel PLEASE get back to acting in good movies?Four stars. "},{"Title":"Bad acting and very bad story","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Honestly all the hype coming up to this movie was awesome but after I got to see it for myself I was not impressed at all  well all  of you know that vin diesel was really cool in pitchblack instant classic and fast and the furious but xxx was bad all around but tried to make up for it in all the action but for me it didn't cut it like for him going around killing all these people just to pass a test just to become a special agent come on and the directing looked like some highschooler did parts of the film very unrealistic and i think they tried to I mean the directors tried to pull another fast one loll but sorry it didn't If someone asked me about the movie I would say well If you watch it only for the special effects because story sucked and bad acting. "},{"Title":"Damn thing, why won't it give zero's!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Stupid voting thing on this site, it only goes down to 1. It should go10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3,2,1,0, xXx!Mindless trash of the worst form, wigger style.  Seriously if you LIKED this movie, your f*cked in the head. "}{"Title":"Not worth the time to watch.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even from Vin Diesel I expected better than this. Other than a couple decent action scenes and some good music (a brief live performance by Rammstein is the film's highlight) this film is a total dud. The script had to have been written by third grade students because it was horrid. As much as I like chase scenes and the many sweet cars (the GTO being the showcase) they really did little with them. Save your time and money and skip this film. "},{"Title":"This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked Vin Diesel before I watched this movie, afterward.....ouch! His lines were so rehearsed and acted that he was truly terrible. The amount of cliques was out of hand making the dialogue pathetic. The plot was ridiculous, c'mon, a gas that is released from a goofy looking boat streaming down a river in the mountains into Prague. Does anyone really think that a river could flow through a ski community then into a major city without a waterfall, dam or some sort of drop?????? "},{"Title":"Should've Been Scrapped","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  For the love of God why did Hollywood make this?  Why did anyone think that this movie was as good as people I've heard talk think it was?There will be some spoilers so be warned... The premise of the film, punk no-good-nick gets offered spy job in lue of jail time, succeeds in upsetting superiors, doing away with the bad guy and getting his woman seems like an alright idea on paper and the shame is that it could have been good on the screen as well. The script lacked any qualities of being a worthwhile effort for its writer(s) with bad attempts at one-liners and technological spy linguistics. Also, the inconsistancies of the plot shine through without effort. Example Triple X blows up the bad guys motercycles and a car at his castle/manor after escaping from the underground lab.  The bad guys girlfriend (who's actually a secret agent for Russia but the bad guy knew all along supposedly) manages to make it from the underground lab (when Triple X is already well on his way on a motercycle) to Triple X's safe-house to save his life by somehow managing her police buddies (The 2 Ivans) and still having time to get to the safe-house less than one min. after he arrives. Another amazing feat is the arrival of snow crawlers seconds after an avalance buried a building and Triple X in a remote mountain location. Simply amazing.  Russian special agents and snow crawlers must have transportation magic. Vin Diesel's performance was almost worthwhile.  He tries so hard with the material given but neither he nor Samuel L. Jackson can salvage the movie sadly. The movies' makers had their minds stuck on one summer movie formula throughout this film it seems.  Blow up a LOT of stuff (i.e. cars, buildings, cocaine fields), get a small army of almost naked women dancing, an actor who looks like Kevin Spacey with long hair to play the villain, a guy with muscles, a decent looking lady, make sure they have some acting talent and you'll have a movie that kids will shell out money for at least once or twice and you can make a sequel or two out of it.Vin Diesel's last words in the movie as Triple X sum up my feelings for this film You gotta be kidding. "},{"Title":"I cant believe this is a movie","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel is one of the worst actors I have ever seen. I cant believe Hollywood would make a star out of this guy.  This movie tries to hard to be good and the acting ( besides Jackson ) is horrible. It wasnt entertaining at all. A disgrace to the movie business and all the great movies before it. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This bored me. This truly did bore me. It bored the people I watched it with. We all agreed it was one of the worst films we'd seen this year. Why did this happen? XXX was supposed to be the future of action films, `better than Bond'.The film opens with a dig at Bond when a spy wearing a tux is easily found and killed by the bad guys in a Rammenstein gig. We then are introduced to Xander Cage who is apparently an extreme sports legend. We (the audience) know this because he jumps off a bridge and Tony Hawks (not the one who dragged a fridge round Ireland) and Matt Hoffman kiss his ass. He has also never &#145;sold out' which we know because a busty businesswoman tries to get him to endorse his own computer game (something the two above have made a fair few dollars from doing). I won't go on as you probably know the rest. I thought that Diesel was good in what I'd previously seen him (Saving Private Ryan, Boiler Room) but here... There's a speech he delivers saying how he guessed he was in a tested that, for me, was like nails on a blackboard. Plus the way his mouth was almost permanently hung open reminded me of a chimp. When he kissed Argento for the first time it looked like he'd never done it before in his life.Characters I could care about also would have helped. It is two days after seeing the film I can't remember any of their names beyond Xander Cage. Our bad guys are basically a main evil baddie, a muscleman, his even bigger brother and a sharpshooter. There was absolutely nothing memorable about any of them. Also, a cardinal sin of action films is to be unexiting. Another is to not convince you that the hero is in danger. There were a few times when it was obvious that a shaven-headed stuntman who looked nothing like Mr Diesel was falling through the sky.  The biggest problem was the heavy reliance on the very Bond formula this film is trying to surpass. The hard-ass boss for the hero to banter with, the beautiful women, the eccentric inventor and glamorous locations are all present and correct. I see there's a sequel on the way. I will not be looking forward to it.   "},{"Title":"It's a shame I can't vote zero.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being buried in rotting garbage.  Getting punched in the teeth.  Rubbing your face on a belt sander.  All of these things will leave you feeling better than watching this movie.  It's a good thing I didn't see this in the theatre because I would have beaten an usher to death on the way out. Even when watching it for free I could barely bring myself to watch the entire thing.  Whoever decided that Vin Diesel should be in movies should be hunted down and punished for his sins against humanity.  Then again, there is one type of person who likes this movie.  An idiot.  So if you are an idiot, by all means watch this movie and enjoy what should be outlawed by the Geneva Convention.  Also, if you're not sure if you're an idiot or not, watch this movie.  If you don't swear an eternal grudge against those responsible, you are an idiot. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!!!!!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen.  I cannot believe the hype behind this movie.  Horrible acting, even worse plot. At this rate, Vin will be making movies for USA Network in 2 years.  Pitch Black remains to be Vin's ONLY good movie.  This movie can be appreciated only by zit-faced teenaged boys. "},{"Title":"What the Hell?","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This one has academy award written all over it. Vin Diesel's perfomance as XXX is sure to win an oscar. If you can't tell I'm joking you obviously haven't seen this movie and your lucky. I don't even need to go into the movie itself. What a joke. This is the perfect example of a Hollywood sellout. Vin Diesel is the perfect posterboy. I don't feel like wasting any more time on this review. You get the idea. "},{"Title":"Now here's a dumb one.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Score4.5 (out of 10)It's great to see so many people getting what a terrible movie Triple X actually is.  It truely is a B-movie with an A cast and production team. Apparently Rob Coen and the rest of his hacky Fast and the Furious crew have decided that James Bond movies are past their prime and not fit for the Playstation generation.  I would even tend to agree, Bond films have been the same for years, but if XXX is the alternative I'll take 007 any day. With it's nearly endless references to extreme sports, MTV and video games (it's the first movie I've seen to accurately refer to 1st person shooters) XXX wants to be cool so bad it wreaks of desperation.The opening scene is a pot-shot showing a dapper, tuxedo wearing spy being murdered- the body surfed over the hands of a dancing crowd.  It's kind of a sick scene, but from there we are introduced to Xander Cage who in the form of Vin Diesel is just as boring as the Bond look-alike.  Obviously this is not an actor's movie.  Bad acting rarely bothers me anyway, but Diesel is SO bad and seems so out of place with the rest of the movie it actually pulls you out of the screen.  We never quite get what Cage's deal is. Technically the movie is standard.  The music is dull and out of place - hey this sounds cool, let's put it in- and the visuals are uninspired.  The movie is an endless parade of action scenes the BSU good, but director Rob Coen is unable to generate any excitement or fun out of it.  Much of it, particularly that finale, is labored and drawn out to the point of frustration.  The story- involving nihilists and some sort of deadly virus that might call to mind the much scarier VX poison gas from The Rock- is pure silliness.Probably the biggest problem with XXX, for me at least, was the fact that like to many other recent action flicks it conforms to the commercially friendly PG-13.  If it really wanted to make an impact it would take this opportunity to relish in the sex and bloody violence that the PG-13 restricted Bond films can't.  Without going that extra mile, or injecting something more imaginative into the proceedings, XXX is still just the same tired old thing.  Something it clearly doesn't want to be.Still, Xander's gun is pretty cool.   "},{"Title":"Summer 2002->Nelly music, xXx, The Fast and the Furious, Vin Deseal, Action, Cars-->What Else Do You Need? A CLUE!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the most cleche action movies I have ever seen. Do not be fooled guys, this is as bad as The Fast and the Furious with little appeal. xXx isn't a good movie! Avoid!My Take 4/10 My MPAA rating PG-13 for constant action violence, sexual content, and some language. "}{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now where should one begin on a film like this. Let's start at the least important aspect shall we? This is the story of Xander Cage and a group of extreme sports activists who think the world revolves around video games. Cage lives his life like he actually is in a video game because he hates the world and isn't afraid of death. He is the recruited by Gibbs to become a secret agent after Xander passes two tests. The first find him in a diner where two men are going to rob the place, but of course Xander sees right through that one. The second sees him in the middle of a Columbian cocaine plant when he is mistaken by the Columbian police as a drug lord. After passing the tests he is sent to Russia to find out information about a bunch or Euro-trash criminals. It would seem that every time I write about an action film I tend to say it is the missing link that action films need these days, this could be very true about XXX, and to much of the films target audience (teens) it probably is. But it is this praise that I cannot give this film. Although it has many huge stunts, massive explosions and never shies away form a good shoot-out; XXX can't be what action needs because it is what action already has. This film adds nothing new to the genre and if people pay close enough attention they will see that this is just the plot of several other popular action flicks woven together as one. If anyone can watch this film and not compare it to James Bond or La Femme Nikita I would like to meet them because they are either a visionary or an idiot. But there is a reason there are 15 James Bond films and people still enjoy them, or why La Femme Nikita was a huge French smash. It is because they have style and class. James Bond is smooth and swave, he does everything with precision and grace, he also has great charm and poise. Cage is just a rugged low life he goes across the country to battle other low lives while blowing up anything that gets in his way, then again we must remember the target audience here. But the fault of this does not lay in the hands of director Rob Cohen or star Vin Diesel. The major problem here is the script by writer Rich Wilkes, who between Airheads and the Jerky Boys Movie, has yet to write a decent script that will appeal to a wider audience than teens who get thrills from stupid people doing stupid things. But this is a minor setback and doesn't steal too much impact from the film. There are two ways to view this film; one would be to see it as it appears, the other is to see it for what it really is. If you choose the first for this kind of viewing I must again use the term target audience, who will probably fall in love with the film and praise it as one of actions finest moments. If you choose the latter you will probably be watching a huge misfire. At face value this is a high-octane, thrill-a-minute roller coaster ride that never lets up in the action department and much to the films success many people seen it this way. Now back to the second people. If you take this film for what it is it really is a very insincere film. There is nothing more here than a bunch of other action film plots loosely tied together and covered over with endless action in hopes that no one would realize. What better way is there to get people to your film then throwing in a bunch of endless action and lots of sexism to accuracy the males? Then cast a teen sex symbol, in this case Vin Diesel, as your lead to get the girls flocking to the theatre in masses as well. Someone must have put a lot of thought into this. The film was directed by Rob Cohen who also made last year's surprise summer smash, the Fast and the Furious. Cohen knows has to stage good action sequences, the action in F and F was exhilarating, but instead of trying to make another great action film he seems only to be worried about how he can make the Fast and the Furious again, except this time bigger. Instead of having a good story, unlike the Fast and Furious, Cohen seems to be more content on seeing how many things he can blow up in a two hour period and how many scantily clad women he can use as pawns before the audience starts to figure out just how weak the story actually is. It would almost seem that Cohen is more worried about making a hit than an honest action flick, due to the lack of interest in any of the characters. Now that I have totally ripped the film apart how about we move on to the good stuff? Vin Diesel has big things coming to him in action and although I prefer his more character driven action films like Pitch Black and Knockaround Guys, I still can't get enough of him in films like this. He did as much of his own stunt work as he was allowed to and what a good job he did, now if we could just give him so cheesy one-liners he will be on his way to superstardom. But it is not Diesel who out-cools everyone this time. Samuel L. Jackson has a small but unforgettable role as Gibbons (think of him as Bob from La Femme Nikita) who is still the coolest man in the room. It is also nice to see how Jackson handles being the man in charge of the action and not in the middle of it. The biggest flaw in the acting is the romance between Xander and Yelena (Asia Argento) or should I say lack thereof. The story of their love and how they come together is dumb enough but on top of it all we need two actors who have very little on-screen chemistry, like I said before it is good this thing is packed with action because the story amounts to very little. I remember a time when action was simple. You gave Arnold Schwarzenegger a gun and he would wipe out half the world before bedtime. There were no gimmicks or computer generated effects in these films, it was all Arnold, all the time. Now with films like the Matrix actions had become about technology. I guess this is where Cohen disserves the most praise. His lack of computer effect makes this films seem quite raw and true to the action title. Now don't get me wrong there are some computer effects but most of them just help add to the cheese factor of the film anyway. This film is a back-to-the-basics, blow &#145;em up, shoot 'em down actioneer with real stunts and real explosions. It throws its hero into a situation and throws logic out the window. I am still wondering how it is possible to jump a dirt bike ten feet in the air without hitting a ramp? Although XXX had just as many flaws as it did redeeming qualities and standing next to the Bourne Identity (easily the years best action flick) it seems rather second-rate. Nevertheless its simple approach and great action sequences make it possible to sit through the two hours of pointless story and bad romance. Even though it had nothing new to say or offer that hasn't been seen a million times before I am an action fan at heart and can't help but recommend this one anyway. "},{"Title":"XXX...gets a CCC-","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Twenty minutes of this was enough.  Two hours?  I started reading as the two other people I was with finished it.  Pounding, thunderous music ad naseum.  Same for the stupendously unrealistic and overdone action sequences.  This is some normal guy they've plucked outta nowhere?  Ha, James Bond would even have been dead after ten minutes.  Diesel can't read lines, but has a certain charisma.  For brainless action go rent Invasion USA. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's funny","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movies was so bad, it's funny. I couldn't help but laugh at pretty much everything that happened in the movie. Horrible dialogue, the acting is subpar, even the action is lazy. I never felt any kind of suspense during the many mundane action sequences. How many times do I need to see Vin Diesel jump over something that is exploding on a dirt bike? Plus *~SPOILER ALERT~*, why did the kill of the main bad guy so fast? All-of-a-sudden he's dead. He died too easy for a main villain. The film makers tired to hard to be different and they ended up making one of the funniest movies of 2002. "},{"Title":"Beyond crap","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Maybe I'm getting old, but I really think that there is something wrong with fabric of society.  Not just because people even say they like this, but how did this even get made.If you want to see how not to make a film, watch XXX.  This truly is, beyond crap.  I can only assume the intended audience is between 9 - 12 and that's insulting them.What has happened to action movies.  Remember Clint, Burt and Charles (Bronsan).  Their films, some good, some bad, at least had a degree of realism.  Indeed they had to, otherwise people wouldn't take the plot seriously.  At least in the last 20 years it has been my pleasure to see such films as Leon, The Terminator and the Matrix.  Yet in the last 10 years, it's just explosions, CGI and beyond believable stories.  Face Off, Die Hard 3, MI, MI2, Con Air, the Rock, basically are just crap, beyond believable. Yet all these films have been successful, which then perpetuates producers to continue to create more.Now I have seen one that is even worse, blatantly no attempt to even conform to reality in any way; XXX.  Ironically I thought Die Another Day, was awful, but compared to XXX, it's a masterpiece.If it smells like it and looks like it, then it is.0/10.  "},{"Title":"New breed of Spy....","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  My A*se. This movie was bad, really bad. The Stunts were seemingly too overdone to be anywhere near believable, i mean sideways on a motorbike inbetween barbed wire...dont think so. Billed as some sort of new breed, its basically just Bond for the teenagers, teenagers who actually still really like Bond, so it comes off as a cheap imitation ripping Bond off at every corner, with the gadgets, the Q person and even the parachute! I can safely say i wont be in the Queue for XXX 2 next year unless someone pays me and/or threatens me with my life/genitals "},{"Title":"My Name? Crap, Xander Crap! Bond it isn't!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great Special effects, Fun action scenes, when Vin didn't screw them up with his corny one-liners and bad acting. And I am not sure If I should say that some of the action scenes over the top or just plain DUMB! I mean what the Hell was that thing with hopping the bike over the fence and tabletopping it, c'mon. Shootin the guy through the door? And this movie has some of the worst acting I have seen in a long time, no storyline, and I think the director must have been on coffee break the entire 3 days of filming of the movie. The best part had to be the avalance scene it was pretty good if they hadn't gotten just a bit stupid on that one also. Let's hope XXX2 is better and shows that Vin Deisel actually has some talent that he has been hiding, otherwise he will be making alot of XXX movies (porn) where he won't need acting talent  "},{"Title":"James Bond+Extreme sports=the worst movie ever made!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let me just say you don't watch this movie, you endure it! I really wasn't expecting much from the man who stared in such epic films as Pitch Black, and The fast and the furios, but the greatest film school rejects, scouring the editing room floors of the worst movies ever made couldn't come up with a movie this bad! Allow me to briefly summarize  *****SPOILERS AHEAD*****. The NSA has a problem, all of thier highly trained agents are getting themselves killed trying to infiltrate a russian mobsters operation, apparently these agents are so well trained, that thier training is giving them away. Samuel L. Jackson comes up with the idea of hiring an extereme sport career criminal (enter VIN DIESEL) to infiltrate the russian mob undetected, nice plan, although a better plan would be to simply inform thier super super secret agents that doing stupid things, like wearing a tuxedo to a thrash metal concert is not a good way for a secret agent to infiltrate anything, they might as well have been wearing name-tags that say secret agent. Choas ensues as Vin Diesel is thrown into a world of half-witted russian mobsters, liquor, and trashy tattoed women, and weather our hero is running from columbian drug lords on a dirt bike, skating down a flight of stairs on a metal tray, or outrunning an avalanche on a snowboard, the action never lets up, although you'll wish to god it would! For a movie this deep and compelling, the acting, stunts, and special effects, and story are all quite bad, other than Samuel L. Jackson, this movie has no acting whatsoever, cheesy action, lame overblown stunts, laugh out loud dialouge, goofy gadgets, and possibly the most horrible story ever written help bring it all together, the only good thing about this movie is that garbage like this only comes along once in a lifetime. and the worst thing about this movie is that the sequal is comming out next year!! god help us all!! If the mere mention of this movie doesn't send you running in terror, believe me it should! If you enjoyed this movie i also recomend Mission Impossible 2 The Fast and the Furios SHOOTING YOURSELF IN THE HEAD! "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel's Pitch Black and Boiler Room Can't Top xXx","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw previews for this movie, I thought it'd be an okay film with a lot of action. To my surprise, it was utter garbage, with some of the most over the done ridiculous and not believable action scenes. If they wanted to make this film awesome or exciting, don't make them go through 15 to 20 minutes of action and missions that turn out to be a test in the end. That's what half the movie is actually, and the action scenes and stunts for the testing period seemed to be more thrilling and exciting then the actual intended action that comes later. Another thing I couldn't stand about this film was the acting. The acting sucked hardcore, I couldn't believe Vin Diesel went from his magnificent and excellent performances in Pitch Black and Boiler Room to this utter piece of s---! It wasn't only Vin Diesel, it was everyone else, including the excellent Samuel L. Jackson (which seems hard to believe) and Asia Argento (who's career has been known for her movies where she takes off her clothes and doesn't put them back on again). The action scene in the end with him outrunning an avalanche is completely flawed. No one can out run an avalance that's going 200 - 300 miles an hour and someone outrunning it on a snowboard that's going 80 - 100 miles an hour. The action is this may be over the top but true movie fans would notice the flaws and the boring dull action scenes. If they made it accurate, maybe my opinion would go up a little, but I doubt it. The story line is also a joke because when I was watching it, I remembered almost 13 other action films that were the same exact thing. Overall, xXx is a complete waste of time and is just a poor excuse for action and excitement. I think the film was only made for all the teen girls to see it so Vin Diesel can take off his shirt. I'd give it a *1/2 out of ****. Now I want to know why they want to make a sequel out of this s---ty movie. xXx is resently stupid and is as dumb as a box of rocks. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie at all costs!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After all the hype of the DVD being released, I thought this would be a rather enjoyable movie. Boy, was I wrong. The acting was awful, the plot line and dialogue was predictable, and the stunts were mediocre. Vin Diesel is at best an average actor and shows it in this film. Avoid this at all costs! Not even worth the rental price.  "},{"Title":"Just another popular fad movie","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Extreme sports is just another popular fad.  As with Break Dancing, the Lambada, and the like, movies have been made about these fads.  The movies were typically horrible and were soon forgotten.  This one will be too. Look at other movies in the Fad genre and see if you remember anything about them except the fad in questionBreakin' (1984),Electric Boogaloo (1984),The Forbidden Dance (1990),Prayer for the Rollerboys (1991)All of these movies appealed to the typical MTV generation, short attention span, fad followers.  xXx follows in the same vein.  If you have seen the previews for the movie, you have seen the movie in its entirety.  All of the best action and one-liners (and that is not saying much) is contained in the 30 second TV spots.  The plot is compressed into that same time without losing anything valuable.  The only thing you don't quite see all of in the preview is the climax, and even then you aren't missing anything.I admit that Vin Diesel has had a couple of good roles, but this is NOT one of them.Of course they are making a sequel...xXx 2.  Look what that did for Breakin' (Electric Boogaloo was the sequel).  That will be another movie that I will refrain from seeing.Rating 1 out of 10, and that is being generous. "}{"Title":"This film rec'd a 2 rating...","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ...'nuff said.  A sub-par movie where pretty explosions are substituted for, well, everything.  Vin Diesel is too self-conscious to be a good actor...and there were enough plot holes to call it swiss cheese and make a liver-worst/cheese sandwich.   "},{"Title":"Starts off bad but gets better, Vin can't act though","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The action part of the trailer was what made me rent this movie cause I can't stand Vin Diesel he's a terrible actor and he's not good in this movie by a long shot. He's a little better when he eases up and doesn't try to act like a tough guy. The movie is just about him being a daredevil stunt man and the American government sending him to Russia to spy on some evil people. So he goes over there to avoid jail time and buys some nice cars from them but later learns they're building deadly bombs in the basement of this huge mansion. Naturally he hooks up with a Russian spy and they end up together in the end. There's some great music in this movie, mostly rock thank God cause rap sucks. The movie starts off really stupid and horrible but slowly gets better, the last 45 minutes are great. Vin's dialogue when tossing insults back and forth with the Russian chick is some of the worst in movie history especially the way Vin pulls it off. However it gets better, Vin becomes less annoying, great music and pretty good action make this movie worth seeing. 6/10 "},{"Title":"it's a s**t-load!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  this is one of the worst movies ever made. it has everything a bad movie needs (except Samuel L. Jackson and Asia Argento) Vin Diesel, Vin Diesel, Vin Diesel, Vin Diesel, bad script, pointless shooting, BAD ACTING! It's sooooo over-hyped! It's the s**t-load of movies. Why? Why? Why?Poor Asia Argento...why'd she had to be in this movie? How could Dario let her do this? "},{"Title":"00 Zero","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  They had 20 great Bond films to rip-off and yet they couldn't even keep me watching till the end.  I thought Bonds latest offering Die Another Day was the worst Bond film yet, but its still much better then this.  Very dissapointing, even as a popcorn action flick its insulting.  How is this getting a sequel!!?? "},{"Title":"Wow...and not in a good way wow...","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had no intention of seeing this movie. When I saw the previews, I thought to myself, I really don't want to see this movie, but I will probably end up doing so anyways. In accordance with my frightenly accurate powers of prophecy, I grudgingly trotted into my local theater with a friend who wanted to see it and watched what was easily the biggest load of bull I have ever seen on the big screen. (Keep in mind that this reviewer is a 17 year old male).I don't really remember all that much of the movie. Perhaps it's because about fifteen minutes in I developed a headache that never quite went away. The movie was so freaking loud I couldn't stand it, and yet I sat through this entire movie. I'm not even sure movie is the right classification for it; perhaps a showcase for extreme sports is a better classification of entertainment for it. Add in some semblance of a plot, an actor such of the likes of Vin Diesel, a bunch of gadgets and hot women, and you get XXX. I know this all seems quite random and incoherent, but so was the movie. It was just one stunt, then a slight pause in the action, then another stunt, then a scene that implies sex with a hot girl, than another stunt, and so on and so forth.Now I love spy movies. I love actions movies. I love spy movies with action in it. For example The Bourne Identity and Die Another Day were great movies. But XXX is NOT a spy movie. Honestly, what delinquent would be ready for a dangerous spy mission with only a few weeks training that was really, once again, a showcase of extreme sports? Yeah, that's what I thought none. And of course everybody can out-snowboard an avalanche. I know I could. Granted, that was the one scene I found to be mildly entertaining, but that's impossible. Keep in mind I have some reservations about a certain surfing scene in Die Another Day, also...Wow, writing this review is actually giving me a headache. I should stop writing this. Spare yourself the misery of watching this movie. Unless you have some morbid fetish with Vin Diesel or despise good acting, action, and plots in your movies, you will not like XXX. At all.2/10 "},{"Title":"Bone-headed baloney","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  You can't really criticise openly brainless action flicks, you can just say how they made you feel. Elated? Disappointed? Cheered up? I felt pretty much nothing after XXX. Here are a few random thoughts on it.Vin Diesel has something but whatever it is, it's not showcased very well here. His timing and delivery of one-liners (important if you're to become the hero of an action franchise) is pretty rotten. Rob Cohen's overkill on the motorbike jumps wore thin quickly, but the avalanche scene was cool. So the direction was adequate, if somewhat uninspired. Asia Argento reminds me of Joan Cusack. With less wit and worse teeth. The villain sounded like Ed Ross' Nicolai out of Six Feet Under. The ending was pure cheese.Like I said random thoughts. They become a fairly random film. 4/10 (a random rating). "},{"Title":"We'll have it shaken, not stirred...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see xXx on a Sunday evening and good thing too as I was tired and the film didn't involve much thinking. From the trailer and the reviews I was looking forward to a good movie that had you on the edge of your seat and gave James Bond a run for his money, however, I left the cinema feeling a little more than disappointed. The action scenes were fantastic, loud music, fast camera pans and exhilarating.  The plot line and the acting was another matter. Vin Diesel is a new star that is rising faster than smoke from a bonfire and yet he is stereotyping himself into action hero roles that do not release his full potential. The references to James Bond were embarrassingly obvious, as were the similarities between characters. Samuel L Jackson worked his constant acting magic to add a dynamic character to the mix and Asia Argento pulled off a decent approach to the lady Diesel's Xander Cage carries an interest for, such a shame that the man he's out to stop already shares her bed. Vin Diesel works well with his character but the storyline is so thin that even his bulging biceps can't keep the movie afloat. I think James still has an edge to him that other movies can't touch, and as for xXx?  We'll have it shaken, not stirred and preferably served with a sedative. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag...","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all I'll go through the bad aspects of this film. At the top must be Vin Diesel. I was a fan of his after Saving Private Ryan and The Fast And The Furious but his performance in this is mind bogglingly bad. Its the same with Asia Argento. The only good performance in it was from the ever brilliant Samuel L. Jackson who can't help being cool for every moment of his life. But maybe the performance would have been half-decent if it had not been for the dire, unimaginative script. You cannot make a movie out of a string of overused, badly timed one liners. Again the best written part of the script belonged to Mr. Jackson. Overall it was pretty cliched. Now to the good...the one redeeming feature...ACTION! The action scenes were immense. The Columbian Cocaine attack was a bit stupid when he manages to hop over a fifteen foot fence but Rob Cohen definately knows how to shoot an action scene. My personal favourite was the snowboard/avalanche chase which actually got me involved...of course it all went down the pan when he finished off with another crappy one liner but the effects were impressive as were the action scenes overall.I didn't much care for any of the characters and the plot was predictably predictable but as mindless action it is about as good as it gets (ish). "},{"Title":"I liked this, and i am suprised!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was very very dubious about this film. Very. I dont like action films, or at least, i didnt think i did. I hated all the Bond movies, and this is a very similar idea.But, I had a blast, really enjoyed the movie. In fact, i would see it again!Vin Diesel plays the cool hard man. He is all he should be, in looks, hard, muscled, mean looking. But in Xander Cage there is a softer centre, he has morals! Admittedly, its not a life changing film, no way, it is a little predictable, and yes the stunts are replayed ad nauseum.But, its fast, its fun, it'll make you say 'wow'. It goes 'KABOOM' in all the right places, and it is not as cheesy as films of this genre often can be. We all know there will be sequel after sequel, but hey, thats films for ya! If you like cool stunts,tattoos, horny blokes and sexy girls, and scary german death metal rock music, then go see this film.My only downside to this film is that there wasnt enough. It should have been an 18 rated, because i felt it was too toned down too really pack a punch and be believable. But then, if you want believable, you dont go to the movies!Enjoy!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bricolage","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this film.  It is a fantastic collection of special effects loosely connected with an improbable plot.  The improbability of the plot (without spoiling anything I will mention the snowboarding sequence and when you watch it you will see what I mean - what *is* he doing there?) is part of the fun. The plot is the bricolage.  Everything from Where Eagles Dare to ... I think every single Bond movie has been roped in.  The E European setting and the American flag are used to give it a cold war feel.  The enemy are described as Anarchy 99 and far from being anarchists they are a cross between the Russian Mafia and the archetypal Bond supervillain...although with less pussy-stroking! There is a plot to blow up/poison the world and ...well I wonder if the hero will foil it....yes there is a lot of predictability. However the Bond formula continues to work.  A new breed of secret agent...I think not.  He is threatened with jail (like Harry Palmer in the Ipcress file) and he disobeys orders (like 007 at least once in every film).The music is excellent. "}{"Title":"Adrenaline","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel is great as a spy, Asia - not so great, because only russian can play russian, but she did her best. New kind of spy story, what can be better? Young, clever and talented actors in a action movie - what can be better? I just would like to wish to all the actors success and all the best!!! "},{"Title":"action ´till you drop","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  this movie is action packed till you drop. the story is flat, the action fat, the girls fit ) story  a roughneck from america is send to czech republic to gather information about a terrorist group called anarchy99. when he (vin diesel) is sending some needful information back to the nsa his (very large) police record will be blanked. you get all you wanted to see in a bond movie without pierce brosmann )one of my favorite speech  sire, we lost another agent. i am sending in another one for backup. toss another mice in their snakepod ? no, we put in our snake in their snake pod.one tip  don´t try to bring in your girlfriend. this is a film only for men ) "},{"Title":"Not for the over 25s","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Marketed as taking Bond further, I was hoping for mindless excitement, where the girls, gadgets and glamour were replaced with good, old-fashioned ultra-violence. Unfortunately, it was the girls and gadgets that were beefed-up, along with those preposterous stunts, and the well choreographed mayhem that was sacrificed. Even the design work is shoddy where Bond looks stuffy and effete in a black-tie, XXX is simply ridiculous in some of the silliest trousers in cinema history.I could see no redeeming qualities in this film and. unlike the Die Hard or Lethal Weapon franchises, you don't have a fun villain to support. The pacing is pedestrian. However, the children in the audience loved it. They squealed with delight as Vin Diesel out skis some very bad CGI and they whooped and hollered as he wrestled a robot boat that would not have looked out of place on a Dr Who set.It seems to me that if I want just classic, Saturday matinee, high jinks I'm just going to have to wait till Blade III.  "},{"Title":"Average action","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Nothing special in this movie. It contains great action scenes, average actors, to the edge unbelievable story. The usual good vs. bad scheme. But, hey, what's bad about this? If i wanna get great performance or a good story i don't watch an action movie. So, summing up, it's quite fun to watch if you dig typical action movies "},{"Title":"Watch it with an open mind","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I work at a cinema so I got to watch this movie for free and to tell the truth I probably wouldn't have gone to see it had I had to pay. However it isn't all that bad. It's a movie that has it's flaws (many do) and to tell the truth I don't really care. If you go into this movie expecting a basic action film than you won't be disappointed but don't go in expecting a masterpiece. This is an OK film and if you relax with it it is an enjoyable experience. The one thing that did strike me as odd is the first kissing scene between Vin Diesel and yalana. You'll no doubt know what I mean if you've seen it. Could Vin have looked anymore awkward?! "},{"Title":"a break from james bond","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  in india everyone was waiting for james bond's new movie and hardly knew about the spy agent from hollywood. now the movie is getting more success than simultaneuosly released bollywood counterpart. the new spy is great . though the story is similar to bond stories the unforgetable action stunts are pulling everyone into the theatre. bond would not try to do such stunt as his suit would get dirty. the chasing avalanche seen is the best one. there should be more such movies with great stunt sequences, though rather carefully as i heard one stuntman died while performing a stunt. "},{"Title":"The 21st century James Bond","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw the trailer of Triple X I knew I had to watch the movie. OK, I admit, it is no intellectual movie, nothing You have to think of, but I do not expect something like this when I go to see an action movie. My bottom line is that Triple X is a very well done action movie, the dialogues may not be very bright, the plot not very realistic, but the actors and the stunts are great. Xander Cage, played by Vin Diesel, is bad and rebellious, nevertheless he deserves the comparison to James Bond. He is funny and he is not stupid. He has charm and he knows how to react in dangerous situations. To sum it up, Triple X is a great action movie, with interesting and good actors, and it is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"XXX (As in it should not be viewed by anyone)","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm sorry people, I managed to only just survive the low plot and high action antics of Mission Impossible 2, but this time paramedics were needed urgently as I was dragged out of the cinema because my brain had ceased to function half way during the film.Okay so maybe I didn't need that much medical attention but I did have a severe headache afterwards I kid you not! Believe me when I say that there is no end to the bad things that I could say about Triple X. I went to see this film on the premise that it had received so much hype and attention from the media and there was the idea being pushed through that this was going to be a more modern kind of Bond film. Being a Bond fan myself I naturally had to go see the movie to see if it would live up to this media promise and like thousands of other people who will go to the cinema for the same reason I did, they too will come out as utterly disappointed as I am.For starters the films' star Vin Diesel is already building up a reputation as one of the newest action stars on the scene with films like Pitch Black and the Fast and the furious under his belt. However, I think this time round he just failed to read through the script thoroughly enough this time. Because had he have done this he would have spotted that the script was in need of some urgent re-writing (either that or thrown it in some fire).The dialogue is trash, the characters are dumb, predictable and not interesting in the slightest. The plot is so ludicrous and not believable that you really begin to not care about whats happening and hope that the special effects and action scenes will mask all this (i.e. good old fashioned eye candy eases the pain).But unfortunately this is not possible either because through the film the action scenes go from really cool and eye dazzling to cheesy tongue in cheek crap that makes you want to roll your eyes constantly and check your watch to see how much longer you have to endure it for.I did feel sorry for Samuel L. Jackson and that an actor of his quality was involved in something so dumb and childish as this film.Finally, this is a point that has to be discussed because this film is trying to be a rival to the Bond franchise and so therefore it would only be fair to speak of how Triple X fairs against Bond. Triple X's character Xander Cage is obviously as the tagline expresses 'a new breed of hero', yes it is true he is trying to appeal to a more younger audience and keep up with the trends of the time. But James Bond was trying to embody the wants and desires of a largely male audience, to be the kind of character you would love to be.If Triple X is also trying to do this then it is not suceeding. I found that the surly, dull, cumbersome, rough-house antics of Xander Cage were not appealing in the slightest and therefore the character bored me beyond recognition. By the end of the film I did not care whether the character would live to see a sequel or not.I understand that Triple X is not trying to emulate Bond but just modernise it. Unfortunately it just missed the mark completely and ended up giving us a film with a character who we just don't care about.I do not forsee Triple X becoming a long running successful franchise so Vin Diesel and other cast members should enjoy it while it lasts. Personally, I'm not going to be in any rush to see the sequel. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally Funny","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I knew from the opening scene that this was going to be a film that I shouldnt take too seriously, but nothing could prepare me for what was to follow. I must admit to being sceptical prior to viewing. Im not a big fan of Vin Diesel but this has nothing to do with the guy personally, I Just think he cant act, especially not in the lead role. His continuing attempts to seem like a real laconic hero served only to annoy all except the 16 year old girls in the audience, while his toned physique was more prominent in this film than his acting ability. His main love interest in the film (whose name escapes me) wasnt actually too bad in the acting department, but their romance was laughable anyway as this film took the term unbelieveable to new depths of depravity. Although the stunts in this film were spectacular, some of the best ever seen, they were to prove ultimately detrimental as it soon became apparent that all involved were trying too hard. The sheer scale of ridiculousness in some of the stunts had me in fits of laughter as many were a blatant attempt to top 007 in his many guises. Not to be taken seriously.The villains meanwhile, might as well not have been there because aside from one moment in the entire film, I pretty much thought they were a bunch of guys having a good time and doing what they want in fabulous night clubs surrounded by beautiful women. What the hell is wrong with that? They rarely had anything to say and were largely shortchanged in the Climactic showdown with the hero department. In fact their missile was the real bad guy and probably deserved more dialogue than the guys firing it did. Notable only for the soundtrack this one I'm afraid. Watch for a laugh but I have a suspicion that as far as the producers are concerned, the joke is on us. "},{"Title":"Weapons! Girls! Action!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There's no way anybody could call this movie an art masterpiece, but it's the most action-packed movie I've seen, and it's the only movie that would've been better off without a plot.Action with a capital A. "}{"Title":"Could have been soo much better","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Review for XXX-2002 Written By NidaMoonLightStarting with a cool 3D computer graphic of the title, the film goes right into the set up of who and what Xander Cage will be facing later in the film. An agent has the bad luck of walking in on hundreds of ravers dancing to the fire blowing sounds of the German band Rammstein. Bad luck since his dressed in a tux, he goes on, trying to stay alive but no such luck. The scene works but it's a bad joke at Bond.Meeting our hero, he does a lovely job of wasting to bits a nice Red car. It's this that gets him in big trouble, taken against his will, he meets agent Gibbons. Pushing Xander through a whole lot of bone aching tests, which he makes through in one piece. We're given a chance to see why the NSA would even think of having him as an agent, put simply, the boy is good and not gun shy! Some truly mind-blowing stunts later and Xander is on his way to lovely Prague and the movie is none-stop mindless fun from then on.Vin is good through out, clearly enjoying himself and the one-liners that pop out of his mouth. But when he tries to give Xander more emotion, he fails somewhat. Most of all when his in the same scene as Asia Argrnto, while her emotional arch is great to watch, since we're to believe her character feels nothing, her tears were something I believed. Vin on the other hand, lost some of the emotional effect he seemed to want to give to Xander, other then that, it was great to watch him. I can't say enough how great Asia is in the film as Yelena, I don't think her character was this good in the script, it's thanks to Asia's talent that something other than tough bitch, good looking chick comes through.Her scenes with Vin are great, the best really, very funny, it's hard not to like her. The moment I loved best between them is when they kiss the first time.She's trying to be all tough, trying to hide the fact that she's both angry and upset at being used. Xander being gentle with her as he lends her into the kiss is not helping matters. Samuel L Jackson is as cool as ever, he and Vin play off each other great. Most of all during the caged lion speech, there's something in Vin's eyes that makes it clear he won't go anywhere near a prison, thanks to Sam, the scene is a lot more than it could have turned out. Michael Roof as agent Toby Lee Shivers is out-loud funny, both a nerd and wanna be action agent, his too funny not to like. And last but not least our bad guy, Marton Csokas, his a better villain than what we've seen, madly over the top but handsome enough to pull it off.Now, onto the other little things. Editing is clean cut, fast and easy on the eye at the same time. Most of all for the car and bike jumps, the editing is at it's best. Photography is wonderful; Prague has never looked more beautiful, look out for the bedroom scene, where both the photography and lighting are great.Production Designee really went all out for the two club scenes, it's all great to look at and suits the music. Costumes are relaxed yet sexy; making the actors fit in with the background, also suiting the characters. The music is really cool throughout the film, I have no idea why the soundtrack turned into two CD's, since it's all mostly rock, couldn't for the life of me hear any rap. Other locations look great, again thanks to editing and photography. Stunts are pretty out there, thanks to special effects and clever stunt double work, Vin looks good. Though the avalanche scene is damn great to watch and the effects are great, it is over the top but still exciting.So, for the next James Bond, Xander Cage works, though the film could have been funnier and less over the top. Plot holes and weak dialogue didn't help, the next film is still one to watch out for.Also, I think that for the next film, Rob Cohen should not direct, someone else could take over. It's not as good as the Die Hard films or many other action films I could name. To tell the truth, I didn't go to see the film cause of Vin, I went because I love action films and this was a let down. "},{"Title":"Where did the time go??","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have just watched xXx, and couldn't believe the time after it finished, when I realised that I had been in the cinema for over two hours, I was amazed. This film is superb. There is no edge of your seat stuff, or long explanations and the film doesnt need it. My brain felt blissfully sponge like throughout. You can just sit back and relax and take in all the action eye candy. The stunts range from the have got the tshirt explosions to fantastic, imaginative and creative stunts, that I doubt James Bond would ever consider. Probably not quite sophisticated enough. Not that i am slating James Bond, but this film takes all of the best bits of Bond, and then adds just enough attitude to lift it above. And not much in the way of sex!! Rather than giving us the what feels like the obligatory scene, it was only implied which for an action film is good, because it keeps the pace of the film that much faster (and also a 12A rating). This is a film that I will buy, its just like Tomb Raider, but with more tattoos. "},{"Title":"A break in the mold","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx may be a rip off of the all the bond films, but it isn't a straight rip off which is why it is a good movie, a lot of the action movies out now are just sequels such as the 'bond' films, reinventions of the same idea and the idea although changed for today still relies on an idea that was though up in a book in the early 60's. xXx looks at the idea of action films and updates it for today's views, tastes and genre developments, audiences want action, but not just plain shoot-outs between stereo-type foreign characters. xXx is action, music and exciting, and even die hard bond fans have to admit that some bond films drag in the middle. xXx keeps the action running high but gives us a break every so often to allow us to take in everything that has been happening. The hero Xander Cage is not a know all brit, but someone who like much of the older teen - young adult audience knows some things and how to react in some of the circumstances but is bewildered and hard pressed in others.  "},{"Title":"Straight up!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  That's right. This is straight up adrenaline action.Yes the story is poor but so what?, I don't want some elaborate story development getting in the way of the pure action.Complaining on the lack of story in xXx is like complaining on the lack of action in one of the good movies, like The Piano or something.xXx is about action and story line is secondary, so if some parts of the story are stupid, unrealistic or whatever, I don't care, this movie isn't about that. Besides the story is easy going and enjoyable if you just accept it for what it is.I don't like to compare movies across genres, so I always rate movies compared to others in their own genre and xXx is borderline 10 in the action genre, but I have to give it a 9. Since I want to save the 10 for xXx2. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous plot, but quality action scenes.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is possibly one of the worst I've seen.  A plot resembling a sieve, a wasted Sam Jackson, a ludicrous villain and Vin Diesel camping it up.The point is, this film knows it's daft.  You're supposed to leave common sense and logic at the door when you come in, and just sit back and enjoy the amusing plot, OTT effects and - admittedly stunning - action and setpieces.Who cares if it's physically impossible to outrun an avalanche on a snowboard, it makes for a damn good action sequence.  Don't go and see this expecting quality cinema, you'll be disappointed.  Instead go and see this for what it is enjoyable, mindless fun. "},{"Title":"Good escapist fun for this moviegoer!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" XXX is the 007 of the new millennium. XXX, the movie, takes the outlandish Bondsian stunts and futuristic cars and weapons to a new level and with an unexpected new hero. Fans of this genre can't get enough of these thrilling antics but -- let's face it -- it was getting a little stale. Pierce Brosnan is Roger Moore is Sean Connery. All great in their day and all smooth, confident and debonair. However, the story and the hero in each new episode was a formula replay of the earlier ones. XXX is rough hewn, unsophisticated but tough, confident and living for adrenaline-rush thrills. Vin Diesel more than fills the bill, as does Samuel Jackson in the role of Security Agent Gibbons. The action and the effects are outstanding and the story has plenty of twists and turns. And, yes, it includes a demented villain with a vision of new world borne out of the destruction of the current one. This is not a movie for everyone but it should have broad appeal as good escapist fun. "},{"Title":"Better than Bond...","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have no idea how anybody can say that this film doesn't compare to Bond. I've never seen a Bond film as good as this! This is the ideal no-brainer action movie. It gives you non-stop action without relying on the baddie explaining his plan to the secret agent before failing to kill him in an ingenious fashion (sound familiar Bond?)Basically, XXX is THE secret agent for the new millenium. Die Another Day has its work cut out to stay in the hunt... "},{"Title":"Utterly mindless, but enormous fun","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The James Bond films are the longest running and most profitable franchise in the history of the cinema, so it's not surprising that there are regular interpretations of the genre. On the 40th anniversary of 007's movie debut comes a new kind of action hero, an extreme sports fanatic who is reluctantly pressed into state espionage in a film with many references to both the characters and situations of the Bond movies. Vin Diesel (born plain Mark Vincent) has the physicality and boyish charm that enable him to pull off this variation as the muscle-bound and heavily-tattooed Xander Cage who - thanks to a vast cast of stunt men and expensive computer graphics - performs some spectacular escapades. The whole thing is utterly mindless but enormous fun - just leave your brain at the door, enjoy the ride, and look forward to the sequel.  "},{"Title":"Makes james bond look boring!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xxx is a movie that every guy wants. it is packed with action sequences, fast cars and hot babes!! the plot is this Extreme sports star Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) is recruited by samuel l jackson to work as a secret agent. Xanders job is simple Foil a plot for world domination!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable action film, but by no means a classic.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One fact that will be very apparent to anyone who watches this film is that this is another attempt to put a fresh face to the James Bond genre, in this case by using the extreme sports craze as a starting point. The references range from the subtle to the (more often) blatant. For instance, the opening scene features a spy in a tux wandering into a Rammstein concert and getting spotted easily and shot.All the Bond cliches are there in vast quantities. This film has gadgets, the supervillan with the mansion in the hills complete with underground laboratory, a car with rocket launchers behind the headlights, walls that spin around to reveal an arsenal, the spymaster talking through a video phone, the list goes on.This all begs the question what new this film has to offer, as everything else has been done so many times before. The only real thing it has is Vin Diesel, which is a hell of an asset when it comes to it. Sure, he's not going to win any Oscars but this isn't what this film is about. This guy has a very fresh brand of style, which anyone who has seen the Fast and the Furious will be familiar with. In that respect, he is perfectly cast. Even if he looks nothing like his stunt double...And that's about it besides a lot of explosions and some over-the-top stunts. Enjoyable film yes, but I don't think that Bond is facing any real competition here. "}{"Title":"Left me feeling unsatisfied","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie, having been a fan of films such as the rock, con air and die hard the pitch of having an extreme sports nut acting James Bond had set my adrenaline glands pumping.  Sadly, the movie whilst offering numerous ingenious set pieces, (I don't care if the avalanche scene looked fake, it was exciting) the whole thing failed to gel as a whole.  Without a memorable bad guy or any effort to at least keep in touch with a smidgen of reality, the movie was just a lineup of bangs and booms peppered with lines of poorly written dialogue.  I hope XXX's next outing will be an improvement on this one. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to anyone here - decide for yourself!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It has become a common habit for me to check the reviews on this site before going to see a movie - and the mixed bag previously noted here made me realise that this was a film that I would have to make my own mind up about. I had another misgiving in that I don't particularly like Vin Diesel as an actor (although the only film I've seen him in so far is The Fast and the Furious which I thought was absolute rubbish, and was the nearest I've ever come to walking out of a film!).  BUT I hadn't been to the cinema for a few weeks, and this was the only thing on locally that seemed even remotely interesting!  Enough history - on with my opinion!I thoroughly enjoyed this movie - it is PURE escapism, and for a film more than two hours long, it passed fairly quickly (usually a good sign!)I will not give away any details of the plot - that's already been done enough times here - but I will say that this is a film that you will love if you can approach it with an open mind, AND more importantly suspend your disbelief at the implausibility of the story and some of the excellent stunt work.This is eye-candy at its best - pure entertainment where you shouldn't waste time thinking - just let it wash over you.  Okay, some of the acting is rubbish, you can drive a truck through the plotholes, the soundtrack is loud and noisy - but if you just want to be entertained then this is the movie of the year so far!At the end of the day, whether you enjoy this film or not depends entirely on you and how you approach it (as I think I've made fairly clear already). Don't expect a tight, well-crafted thriller or an indepth look into the world of espionage, and you stand a good chance of finding a real treat of pure escapism that is a rollercoaster ride of great enjoyment!I'm already considering buying the DVD when it is released, and may possibly view it at the cinema again before it disappears from the circuit.  And for what it's worth - I still don't think much of Vin Diesel as an actor - but I wasn't small-minded enough to let it ruin my enjoyment of what I consider a great movie.  But as I say in the heading of this comment - don't listen to anyone here.  If you are curious enough about the film to be reading these user reviews - then take a chance and go see it!My rating  9 out of 10 (If you're the sort of person who analyses a film, then you would probably only give it a 2 out of 10 if you were in a good mood!)  "},{"Title":"Just enough for two hours of entertainment, nothing more.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just spent 8 Euros (approx. 8.5 Dollars) for a movie which is almost as bad as Mission Impossible 2 (and that one really s*cked).1. The movie is just loud. I mean, I like metal, I like Rammstein, but the soundtrack is just too loud. It kind of smothers everything and there are no quiet moments in between to relax.2. There's nothing but action. Okay, I knew that before, but there aren't any quiet scenes. So after a while the action gets boring. And usually I like action-movies.3. Ever heard about characterization? The villain remains bland, uninteresting and not really threatening. The same goes for his companions as well as - well - everybody else in this film, including Asia Argento and Sam Jackson. You just don't care about the characters.4. The acting s*cked. Okay, Sam Jackson plays his usual cool, but he hasn't got much screentime, so he can't save the film. And Vin Diesel? If I didn't know he can do better (like in Pitch Black, Boiler Room or Multi-Facial, even in TFATF he was better!), I'd wonder what he is doing in Hollywood anyway. Okay, the script is very weak and the stupid lines the actors have to say make a good acting difficult, but he just isn't convincing. I like Vin Diesel, he was the reason I wanted to see this movie in the first place. But in this movie his acting is really bad. And the kissing-scene with Asia Argento is totally unerotic.5. There is no suspense or else of any kind! The plot just plays along without any highs and lows. There are no twists, no surprises. Everything is forseeable. And the stunts? Yea, they are good, but do they have to show 25 times how Xander flies through the barbed wire on his motorbike? Once or twice would have been enough. And the avalanche? It was okay, but...The film is not totally bad though. There are some scenes in it which are totally funny, and some of the one-liners Diesel's got to say were really cool, but those couldn't save the movie for me. And the credits were cool. But I think they should have saved that money and put it into a decent script instead. And maybe Vin should make his next films with a different director where he can show more of his acting ability. There are more people out there than just 18 year-olds, and just action without a decent plot gets boring pretty soon.All in all it is a movie which you can watch once, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Bond-Lite","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Rating 12A Stars  Vin Diesel, Asia Argento, Samuel L Jackson Theme  Secret agent action adventure Language/Nudity/Violence  Moderate language, scantily clad ladies, loads of extreme violenceBig bald black guy with an obvious dislike for authority and a propensity for hobbies most would class as more than a little silly is forced to work for the government he so regularly and deliberately irritates.  And that's pretty much all the plot you need to know.  Guns, gadgets, cars, bitches (I'm quoting), bangs, maniacal sociopathic mastermind criminals and testosterone levels so high that your girlfriend may leave the cinema as your gay lover.  What more could you possibly want from a Friday night?The easiest comparison to make is the one that the xXx publicity machine has been using to generate hype, James Bond.  The writer and director have had 19 Bond movies to use as a reference library, and some of the choice cuttings are obvious.  The opening scene celebrates the death of the old guard with the killing of a tuxedoed secret agent who slips from back streets into a club.  But this is not a champagne reception, rather a European industrial thrash metal gig. The Bond-esque agent falls from the stage after being shot, right onto the moshing crowd.  A prolonged shot of his dead body being bounced aloft lets you know the movies intentions from the outset.  There is a regular stream of references throughout the movie, including the obvious two fingered salute of a parachute decorated with an American flag (thankfully the only stars and stripes this movie contains). xXx  wants very much to be the replacement franchise.While comparisons are apparent, there is also the deliberate differences, highlighting just how alternative xXx is.  The unbeautiful cast - Diesel is not the typical pin-up model and his 60 Marlboro Reds a day voice is certainly not the velvet Queen's English of James Bond, the conspiracy theorists version of the NSA is far removed from Bond's government department and the soundtrack is more street than Albert Hall.  Q, excuse me, Agent Shaver is taken out of his mad professor's house and actually given some field experience.  Jelena is alluring but no Halle Berry. Bang for your buck, the explosions far outnumber the exposition, although there is very little you will need explaining.  Even the appearance of Xander Cage (6'2 Vin Diesel) is the polar opposite of Bond, tattoos on top of muscles on top of attitude.  His coat is stolen from a Hollywood pimp and the rest of his wardrobe is borrowed from Bruce Willis' Die Hard collection.  Even his choice of car is designed to show that he is not part of the Bond generation.  Out of a line of Ferraris, Lambourghinis and other European super machines, Xander chooses the American classic GTO (and to any other humans being he has clearly made the wrong choice, but he seems happy with it) .The acting is passable, Asia Argento is probably the best, and has the critical European acclaim to back up her ability.  Jackson isn't stretched and Diesel is Diesel, the same way that Arnie is Arnie.  The narrative is unimaginative and the dialogue is laughable.  And it just doesn't matter. For all its failings xXx is entertainment and not pretentious enough to even claim anything else.  At just over two hours, its about the right length and packs more stunts into its duration than an audience can rightfully expect. The stunts are big too, really big, and so much fun to watch that you are grateful for the multi-angle repeat shots.  They're even more impressive because, thanks to a little clever CGI, Diesel's face can be seen as he throws motorbikes, cars and himself around like hacky sacks.This re-teaming of Rob Cohen and Vin Diesel, having had great success with The Fast and the Furious, is going to make people money.  It will have at least two sequels, hopefully with a different writer.  It will make lads around the country more than content for a couple of hours at the weekend. And I'm sure there are a fair number of women out there who aren't going to mind watching Diesel's body for a while.  With an obvious inspiration, a couple of cameos (Eve, Matt Hoffman) and a couple of bizarre references (the theme tune to The Third Man being the most obscure), xXx is entertainment of the most mindless order.  Bond movies are a genre unto themselves and they remain in their own company for now.  This film, and potential franchise, shares borders with Bond, but never quite reaches its territory.  While the King retains his title, the crown prince may have been found.  Not a replacement, more an alternative, and certainly an acceptable filler until Die Another Day next month.Mark  7/10 Who to go with  The lads.  "},{"Title":"A New Breed Of Secret Agent? I don't think so.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX was launched in the UK as a 12A movie. This means that you can take kids along to this movie with the supervision of adults. This is certainly a film I wouldn't take kids to. Its meant for the teenage demographic...As Triple X loudly blasts its way onto our Cinema screens as the new breed of secret agent I found myself itching at the idea that we could have an anti-bond film - similar in vein to the Harry Palmer (Micheal Caine) movies or indeed the more spy-realistic Ryan Movies such as Patriot Games, etc...however this is not the case.Instead of re-inventing the whole concept behind Bond/Spy movies it goes ahead and blantly rips off or homages several Bond films in one fell swoop. Sure, nearly every spy film has to pay its homages to Bond, but they do try to make their own headway - Triple X doesn't do this.There are plenty of action moves, hairbrained stunt sequences and outlandish stunts to satisfy the hardned action junky.XXX is apparantly a new breed of secret agent. Here lies the problem...is XXX a super secret government neo-lisitc attempt to breed a secret agent...nope... is it a gentically perfect spy? nope...its a Xtreme Sports Person who loves nothing more than to quip I live for this Shi*t... Well, then how is he a new breed of secret agent? Well, he's a criminal with a past and is gonna be sent down unless he does this one thing for the government.Now I'm pretty sure that during World War 2 and during the Cold War that criminals were used in a disposable fashion - but is the post Cold War world really a world where we send criminals into a unpredicatable world?There's also the problem that this film blantly ignores the issues surrounding the failings or otherwise of government agencies over September 11th and probably even other, future terrorist actions...It still gives the impression that the world is okay so long as an American can blow sh*t up...it certainly gives me the impression that american spy cinema hasn't learnt a damn thing since 9/11...Also the bad guys are STILL russians...how long has the cold war ended? 10 years? 12 Years? How long does do we have to wait till the Russians aren't the bad guys?It does strike me as strange that XXX is so anti-government, anti-social and pro anarchy yet he still does the right thing, the American thing - he still is an hero that saved the day...He's not really anarchic at all..I did smile at the intro sequence where a man in a tuxedo walks into some rock/punk/neo-rave sequence...Now of course this tries to give the message to the Bond people that their time is up...but I didn't see this, I saw a different message...The man in the Tuxedo is none other than Thomas Ian Griffith...yes, the bad guy from Karate Kid 3...After the success of KK3, Thomas Ian Griffith went on to launch his own action movie business with films like CrackerJack and Excessive Force...they loudly proclaimed that Griffith was the new action hero of the ninties and it was time to say goodbye to the Jean Claude Van Damme's and Seagal's of this world....So it was with relish that I saw the bad guy from KK3 being killed off as if to say that XXX is gonna be the new action hero...I guess time will tell on that...Nice stunts, loud explosions, cheesy one-liners...If you like all that, you'll probably enjoy this more than I did.Overall 5/10. "},{"Title":"Great action movie!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is like an over the top James Bond without all the talking, but with more attitude, action and bigger explosions. Entertainment in it's purest form.Guns. Cars. Chicks. Gadgets. Huge explosions. One-liners. Bad guys. Insane stunts. Humor and above all, lots and lots of action. What can you POSSIBLY want more in a movie? Yes, it has plotholes the size of the sun. But who cares if they cover them up with big explosions?Yes, character development is nowhere to be seen in this flick, but who cares if they cover it up with lots of pretty girls?When you're totally braindead after a long week of work, THIS is the movie to unwind with. No complicated plot, stupid characters, or boring drama to endure. Just sit back, set your mind to 'standby', and don't forget to breathe and chew that popcorn once in a while.Oh, did I mention the huge explosions?Rating 8/10. Bring on XXX2! "},{"Title":"The concept of action","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  All the people who've been ripping this movie to shreds obviously have no concept of what a good action movie contains. If you want a fantastic script with plot twists to amaze the mind then you are setting yourself up to dissapointed with action movies. XXX had me giggling like a 12 year old girl in absolute delight. Beautiful women, huge dudes, loads of guns and a jizzload of things blowing up. Thats action. thats triple x and thats all i ever wanted to see. Vin is the next Arnie people and if you look at all the gems he turned out you will be waiting here with a grin on your face while Vin starts pulling in more big roles.  "},{"Title":"One big MTV video.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great action, lot's of stunts mixed with fresh music makes the movie to one large MTV music video.It's been a while since I've seen that kind of bad acting. Can't  quite get to know the characters at all.By the way... I was almost convinced at the end of the movie that I would not have to glare at another BIG american flag in the background of a heroic scene... But when the parachute opened at the very end of the movie, I turned out to be wrong. See it at the cinema or don't watch it at all. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Against my will, I was dragged to see this movie by my best friend and her mother.  (Our tastes in American Pop Culture notoriously collide.) But, I feel compelled to share how shocked and entertained with this movie I was.  Though the trailers left something to be desired, the film did not. It was like watching Bond meets Mission Impossible without the womanizing and a much wittier dialogue!  It is true that one line made the whole movie for me though, If you're going to send someone to change the world, make sure they like it the way it is first.  HELL YEAH!  It was heart- pumping and hilarious...and the action scenes were unbelievable.  I just want to say, Kudos! to Vin Diesel...they never could have pulled it off without him.  Thanks for the entertainment!     "},{"Title":"2 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Maybe I expected too much. From the previews, it appeared that maybe this would be James Bond for the 21st century. It certainly tries to be* It opens with a killer stunt* There is a character sort of like M* There is a character very much like Q* There is an attractive eastern European girl who starts out antagonistic to our hero and later...* There is an evil villain with an evil fortress and an evil plan* Lots of things explode* And moreThe opening stunt is really good. The hero, Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) steals a Corvette, leads police on a chase, and jumps it off of a very high bridge, escaping by parachute. And he captures all of this on video from many angles. It turns out he's some sort of an extreme stunt and video game underground star. And when he gets home after all of this, there's a huge party waiting for him.Meanwhile, Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) of the NSA (in the M role) is having problems. His agents, who are more in the James Bond mold, don't fit in with the people they are trying to spy on an organization called Anarchy 99. He needs someone like Xander. So he recruits Xander and a few others like him, who are in trouble with the law or would be if they had been caught. Threatening Xander with jail time if he doesn't go along, Gibbons convinces him to become an agent.Toby Lee Shavers (Michael Roof) is the NSA agent in the role like Bond's Q. He's just a geeky guy who has been in the agency for years and never sent into the field. He's the only comic relief in the movie, unless you count the unintentionally funny dialog.Yelena (Asia Argento, who is actually Italian) is the girl. She doesn't get a last name, but at least she gets a first name and a mildly interesting character. The rest of the women in the movie are purely decoration. You would think that, if this is James Bond for a new generation, the status of women would be better. But in fact it is *far* worse.Yorgi (Marton Csokas, from New Zealand) is the eastern European villain. He's fine but not very memorable. His fortress is cool, but his evil plan is more ridiculous than most James Bond villains' plans.The cinematography was better than I expected. The filming was done in locations including Prague and Lake Tahoe, and it looks very good. The special effects generally didn't call attention to themselves, which is a good thing, except for an avalanche, which looked horribly fake.The big problems with the movie have already been mentioned above. The dialog is distractingly bad. The villain isn't compelling. The special effects aren't always. Not mentioned yet is the soundtrack, which was heavy on rap and probably good for the target demographic, but not for me (I did appreciate hearing the theme from The Third Man being played briefly on the zither, but that doesn't make it onto the soundtrack CD).I would recommend *not* seeing this movie. That said, some people have liked it far more than I did, and it has done very good box office business, so there will be sequels. I just hope they hire better writers next time.Seen on 8/17/2002.  "}{"Title":"James Bond meets Mission Impossible, good flick!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just came back from viewing it and I must say I liked it.  Ofcourse it had its clichés, but what action flick doesn't.  Finally there's a bad-ass action hero that does it better than Arnold, Stallone and Willis (which kinda's like elevatormusic compared to Vin Diesel).  The humor is funny, though some times clichéd.  Ford Fairlane-ish in a way, but not too much to make it annoying.  Stunts are as good as it gets, adrenaline all the way. James Bond is for the older audience, Mission Impossible is ok but lets face it, Tome Cruise ain't much as actionhero goes.  This film takes the best of those two worlds and makes a modern day american James Bond agent, that should appeal more to the younger audiences aswell as the old guard. But ofcourse we get the standard american flag on a parachute, which is getting a bit old ;) Not too much love here, and that is a good thing imho. Lots of action, good movie and a *real* James Bond ending ;-) If you want something to think about, go see a french movie.  If you want entertainment and fun this one is definately worth the money! 8 out of 10 on this one!X. "},{"Title":"heh heh","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all, anyone who gave this a bad rating does not realise the concept of Action, I dont initially consider action to be one of the best genres, but this film does considerably well. I find this movie for a younger audience like myself. It has lots of action (but sometimes goes overboard with it). For example in the avalanch scene, there is no way in the world that a snow board can go much faster then a avalanch with less then a 20 second head start. Overall the movie had its advantages. Vin Diesel played very well for his character, the weapons and the car is awesome. The plot and the script were not so much up there. but it still was a good movie. "},{"Title":"I like the movie and I think it is worth seeing.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw this movie in the theatres, I was amazed at the special effects. The acting was really good, and there was lots of excellent action scenes. I can't wait till it comes out on DVD! Overall, a great movie and I recommend that people who like action movies should consider seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am prepared to give Vin Diesel the benefit of the doubt as far as his acting abilities. It is incredible that he once auditioned for the part of the transvestite in Flawless. A part eventually played by Philip Seymour Hoffman. However if he expects to be the new Arnold Schwarzenegger perhaps he should wait for another vehicle than this overblown over hyped artless piece of moviemaking. I walked out before the end -expecting something better. save your dollars folks. "},{"Title":"Boring and over-hyped","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is an over-hyped James Bond clone without witty dialogue, a realistic plot or a sympathetic lead character. It is cartoonish, lurching from one action sequence to another, with long boring bits inbetween. The writers obviously didn't spend much time thinking up a plot, and even the special effects and stunts are over-hyped. I couldn't wait for it to end.The only thing that was good about XXX is that it showed how out of touch movie the movie critics who claimed that Xander Cage is the next generation's James Bond really are.spoiler Weren't the police who raided the anarchy 99 HQ slightly underequipped? "},{"Title":"Good News, Bad News","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Bad News first Somebody mentioned here that Vin Diesel was a man of few words and may be a successor to Willis and Big Arnie.  He's correct that VD is of few words, but they should be even fewer.  He has so much trouble delivering his lines, it looks painful.  If only I could have had an alarm clock to wake me up after VD was finished trying do deliver the small amount of dialogue he was scripted for, then get on to the action that was the only point to this. It wasn't just him, all of the characters weren't convincing.  They looked like they were trying to act. The writing was on a par with Austin Powers, which was playing at the same time, and I thought I would have been better seeing that.And no, to even mention replacing Bruce and Arnold, can't even contemplate.Good news  For the action fans  The movie must have had a big budget because the mayhem, stunts, action and location scenes were top notch.I'll be avoiding XXX-2 like VD.  "},{"Title":"zZZ","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even Vin Diesel's well toned bod and stunts aplenty couldn't save this from year's best comedy while not really trying to be. I have never laughed so much in my life. Vin, if you live for this s$&t you'd better re think your career! "},{"Title":"James Bond meets the 2002 X-Games...","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Go see this movie.  Don't expect great acting or a realistic plot, but this movie is awesome.  Xander Cage....what a cool name, it's almost as cool as his real name...Vin Diesel.  I went into this movie expecting exactly what I got Explosive stunts and high tech gadgetry.  Great flick, go check it out, by the end, you'll want to fly a corvette off a bridge...!!! "},{"Title":"So much cheese you'll be constipated for weeks.","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Yet another movie with a young, hip star trying to displace James Bond from the action hero throne.  Way off target.  Vin Diesel (nice stage name) looks like a drooling inbred with camera shots that, I presume, are to be introspective.  He just stands there breathing through his mouth like so much trailer trash.Give it a rest Vin.  Maybe worth renting but not worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Hideous","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's hard to imagine a film so awful you could describe it as a blot on Danny Trejo's resumé, but here it is.  I've heard Vin Diesel call this `the climax scenes from every action movie ever made, all rolled into one.'  He's right.  But writer Rich Wilkes and director Rob Cohen seem to have forgotten that a climax is only exciting as the payoff to something else an engaging story.  And this isn't one.  It's tediously vintage James Bond, right down to the appalling accents, oversized Euro-thugs, M, Q, gorgeous bad girl, silly gadgets, laughable doomsday device, and the obligatory love scene denouement.  Either this is some kind of postmodern gesture or it's plain lazy writing.  I'll go with the latter, and the proof is in the viewing it's boring beyond belief.  But at least the thumpin' soundtrack should keep you awake - that, and the macabre desire to see just how bad it can get.  Along with the millions of dollars this will safely pull from the pockets of gullible teens worldwide, it should also garner at least one award - surely it's the unbackable favorite to take out the inaugural Razzie Award for Worst Editing.  The escape from the Colombian drug lords beggars belief. "}{"Title":"Cheesy sound, dialogue, and cinematography","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film had undoubtedly the worst sound mix of any big-budget action adventure film of the last 15 years. Submachine guns blare away, and all you hear is a whisper. The filmstock looks grainy and may even be expired film for the lack of decent color rendition. Vin Diesel, whom I liked in PITCH BLACK, was wooden, unconvincing, and unintentionally humorous as a romantic interest. Nor was his leading lady any help in this regard. Asia Argento didn't have near the appeal to pull off the female lead in this type of movie. The bad guy's plot to destroy the world was more laughable than anything Dr. Evil could ever concoct in an Austin Powers film. As for the musical score, I'm not sure if there was more than one song throughout the whole movie; it all sounded like the same ceaseless growling and screeching to me.Much has been made of the stunts, but in an era of seamless CGI, how does one know what is a stunt and what it computer-generated? At least in a Bond film of the 60s or 70s you knew it was real.My 17-year-old son liked XXX, but I think most adults, even those who enjoy action-adventure films as a guilty pleasure, would be well-advised to stay away.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Things I'm gonna do for my bank balance!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  So what IS the fundamental purpose of the movies I ask you? Spot on! to ENTERTAIN! Someone either TOLD Rob Cohen that (I rate that a FAILED objective with THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS....arguable call, I realise!) or he worked it out for himself!  EITHER way, this, my friends is sheer powerhouse entertainment! Perhaps on account of the masochistic streak in me, I actually read 90% of the reviews here before embarking on this contribution and with the exception of the fringe-psycho who declared XXX to be both short on action and TOO intellectual (huh? I thought EVERYONE in the western world could read and write by now?) and the laughably deranged fruitcake who felt Vin Diesel presented Agent XXX here as a quivering WIMP (heheheheh), the comments were pretty apt!Finally, a mega-budgeted film that delivers the dollar value - pretty much the most awesome stuntwork and action fx since TERMINATOR 2. Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage exactly as everyone would want him to - as Vin Diesel! Almost restrained, always likeable and with none of the stiff-upper lipped Brosnanesque refinements that so typify a Bond movie, and make no mistake that's all this is - a variation on GOLDENEYE! In the wash-up though, it blows the traditional and recently metamorphisised  everything-our-computer-says-you-want-in-a-Bond-film clean out of its own gun-barrel. Stack XXX up against TOMORROW NEVER DIES, THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH and most likely DIE ANOTHER DAY and it becomes obvious there really IS a need for a Changing of the GuardWHY is this so good?  for the same reason most ANY film is good. A top script, interesting leads, a good story and jaw-dropping action! Oddly, Vin Diesel, although dominating most every scene he appears in (and that's not easy when you have Samuel L Jackson eyeball to eyeball!) is quite laid-back here and it works so well. Diesel has no illusions as to his theatrical limitations, nor does he attempt to overstep them - he's here simply to have as much fun as the audience and it shows! In his role as Agent Augustus Gibbons (see as M of course, no more no less) Jackson is inscrutable and plays it to the hilt, it is a tremendous performance and he gives his man not just strength and integrity, but humor and depth additionally (Don't think M had those!)Oh how I love beautiful, articulate and feisty European women.. especially when they pout! Asia Argento, to me as appealing as Milla Jovovich (RESIDENT EVIL), Izabella Scorup, (GOLDENEYE) and Leonor Varela (BLADE II...also in Prague, note!) is just plain yummy! Asia, incidentally, her full name incredibly being, Asia Aria Anna Maria Vittorio, Rossa Argento, is the 26 year old daughter of artistically blessed horror-director par-excellence - Dario Argento. Observant and interested viewers may recall her small role as an eleven year old in her fathers mini-masterpiece, the over-the-top benchmark of splatterfest - DEMONS 2. It is her birthday next Saturday if anyone's interested. In XXX, Miss Argento is the token double Russian Agent and sees in Cage, the hope for political asylum. For his part, XXX is a man of his word if nothing else. "},{"Title":"not enough action and too intellectual","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How can people say that this was a good action film?For one thing, the lead, Vin Diesil, is such a wuss!  He constantly cowered before the bad guys and seemed to be in utter fear throughout the whole film.  It would have been nice if he just fought back instead.  Also, the Neil Diamond inspired soundtrack put me to sleep.  Vin is scrawny, he obviously needs to spend more time in the gym - I don't think he was in very good shape before starting this film.  Also, the moves he did (during what little action there was) seemed clumsy and things that my 85-year old grandma could do.Why didn't they just put Samuel Jackson in the lead role!  He would have kicked butt and added some real action during the snowboarding scenes. The overly-intellectual dialog was over the top.  C'mon, this is an action film, not my dinner with Andre.  There was too much exploration of the pathos of eastern Europe, long-winded speeches about world peace and epicurean phenomonalism - I mean, who cares?  I may as well just go watch Mulholland Drive with a bag over my head so that I won't be able to figure out what's going on.Also, I think they over-did the homoerotic subtext - I don't have anything against that - but I wonder if mainstream audiences are ready for it.The film could have used a greater variety of gear - instead of just the usual car chases.  For instance, there was not ONE SCENE that used a jet ski, when one could have been obviously used during a certain part of the movie that I will not reveal here because then that would give away the ending to the movie and I don't want to do that because although it didn't have enough action I don't want to ruin it for anyone else that wants to see it.Per A. (per@alt.net) "},{"Title":"eXtreme crap","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  With Stallone, Van Damme and Seagal making direct to video movies, Bruce Willis preferring meatier, dramatic roles, and Schwarzenegger moving into politics after T3 and King Conan, it appears the day of the action hero has passed.Even so, we have the new breed of stars, namely the likes of Vin Diesel and The Rock (?). Unfortunately these guys have less than half the talent and a tenth the charisma of their predecessors.It amazes me that coming out of virtually nowhere, this poser Vin Diesel (not his real name) starts demanding 20 million a flick. Frankly, he didn't earn it and he doesn't deserve to be ranked amongst the likes of Tom Hanks, Mel Gibson and Arnie. Not by a long shot.Now to this movie. Nothing about this film made you think for a second it was real, it was all too choreographed and slick that you just stopped caring because it was just a stunt show strung together by the weakest of plots. The acting, if you can call it that, was terrible. Vin Diesel trying desperately hard to act macho in every scene, does this guy have any range at all? Asia Argento was pretty much nothing but something for the male viewers to look at, and even then she is quite ordinary. The only relief was Samuel L. Jackson, but with this material even he was uninspiring and I hope he doesn't take too many bit roles like this to lesser actors than himself.I'll close by saying that if this is where the action flick is headed, I think I'll stick to comedy or drama. At least they still know how to make those. "},{"Title":"spy ?","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Please stop over analyzing this movie. Yes it has some plot holes. Of course the special effects can be picked apart. All I know is my friends and I left the movie with smiles on our faces and the the feeling that we had fun. That is what movies are for. There are too many critics that care too much about character development and all other kinds of deepness in films. Watch an old Flash Gordon movie if you think todays effects are flawedMy  message to film watchers is do not challenge the media to entertain you. "},{"Title":"Go with your friends and make fun of it.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There we are, me and two buddies just finished watching a great blues concert on the harbour. So we decide it would be good times to go sneak into a movie (it's stupidly easy in this town). We decide to go to XXX, all I can say is I'm glad I didnt pay for it. We spent the entire 2 hours laughing at the stupidity of this movie. Stay away from XXX unless you're either A. Drunk and go to make fun of it B. A chick who wants to hump Vinny C. A stupid american. Hollywood is really pushing it with this stinker. "},{"Title":"Why is it that audiences'll automatically accept a Russian as a bad guy?  Answer Because filmmakers can't think of a motive for their villain, so they just tell viewers he's foreign.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Sorry, but if you jut tell me a character's bad because just he's foreign,  I'm not buying it. XXX is the definitive example of fodder for the MTV crowd.  It's loud, brainless, and brainwashingly stereotypical (I thought the Russians are all bad plot died out in the 80's).  Why must some filmmakers peg certain ethnic groups or people from certain countries as evil?  It's not right, but I guess they got away with it... for the millionth time.  In U.S. TV shows and movies like this, you'd never see an American portrayed as the bad guy trying to bring the world to anarchy; but you will see Middle Easterners, Russians and Germans (just to name a few) portrayed as bad because that's only what U.S. audiences will accept as antagonists.  They never want to suspect one of their own as movie villains.  Note to filmmakers Stop the stereotyping!  If you stereotype so much it just makes it painfully clear that you have no villain with TRUE motives for his actions, so you just end up labeling him as being from a certain country because you think you can feed audiences anything.  Anyway, the acting in XXX is just as bad as the stupid racial stereotypes.  Vin Diesel is a dullard.  And an UGLY one at that.  What ANYONE finds attractive in him, I don't know, because he definitely is balding (look at his hairline.  ha!), and sounds as if he's going hoarse.  Balding, hoarse men do not make action heroes.  I guess Stallone and all the TRUE action heroes are too old now, so desperate audiences'll accept anyone as a hero, including Mr. Diesel.1 outta 10             "},{"Title":"Sooo indescribably bad","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  My God what were they possibly thinking when they decided to make this horrid horrid schlock.  From the terrible stupid one-liners (I told him that cigarette would kill him) that are NOT funny to the way he calls everyone monkeys this movie sucks. (possible SPOILER ahead) Nothing in this movie even makes any sense, it will all just make you laugh, like how he causes an avalanche and can seemingly outrun it while the genius henchmen on snowmobiles can't, but then of course he just grabs onto some tower and that doesnt get knocked over even though it tears a house to shreds.  Hmm a submarine that doesn't go underwater?  Don't worry XXX can ride it to disarm it.  GREAT IDEA!  There's a horrible unnecessary plot involving missiles and chemical weapons.  I would tell people to watch this movie only because you can laugh and make fun of almost every single dreadful minute, but it's 2 HOURS LONG- 2 hours of pure crap.  Save your $9, it's a little bit more money Vin Diesel & the writers of this drivel won't get.  Everyone please boycott this piece of garbage for the love of God. "},{"Title":"Really dumb spy flick, but okay to watch once","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"     Triple X is better than Vin Diesel's Pitch Black (which was pretty boring), but unless you are one of those people who never get tired of watching the same stunts, same explosions and same corny dialogue, then the rest of us will probably be able to sit through this once.  Like The Matrix, it gets tiring watching action scenes over and over again.  The characters were not well thought out at all.  Augustus Gibbons, Yelena and Yorgi were portrayed with bad acting.  Marton Csokas did a better job with his performance as Celeborn in Lord of the Rings than he did here as Yorgi and that is definitely not saying much.  The film is built upon a plot that tries to be confusing but it really just dumb, nonstop action sequences that aren't really that good and mediocre love and torture scenes.  The only two things that really rocked were Kirril (Kirril was the best of the bad supply of villains) and the music.  Heavy metal fans can just go see this just to listen to Rammstein's 'Feuer Fre!' Drowning Pool's 'Bodies' and 'I Will Be Heard' by that one group Jack Osbourne likes.  Other than that it is dull. "},{"Title":"Hilariously bad (includes many Spoilers)","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll spare everybody's time and try not to repeat the obvious (horrible acting/writing/plot, etc.)   Instead, I'll offer up what I think were some of the most hilarious/terrible moments.  If you've seen this, you'll appreciate them.1 - The generic bad guy, when he offs the scientists, utters the gratuitous line (in thick faux Russian accent), They are like little white mice.  Bye bye little mouse! (waving his hand 'bye bye')2 - As Diesel is about to be killed by the Czech cop-turned-traitor, the cop is shot through the wooden door by Argento's character (who obviously couldn't actually see where her bullets would go).  The best part is they actually try to explain it by having her say, I heard where you were in the room3 - at the end, when Diesel is on 'Ahab' and the missiles are about to fire, the expression on his face as the camera pans up from the missiles to him.  Classic.It has amused me to no end to think of the director actually directing the actors to act the way they did.  Now, when the camera pulls up onto you, I want you to look terrified as if you don't know what to do and you are frozen with fear!........Perfect!  Its a print!Anyways, feel free to list your personal favorite moments.  I'd love to be reminded of why I found it so awfully amusing. "}{"Title":"B movie action flick, had some good shots but most bad.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a B movie action flick. If you like to see stuff blow up go see it. Leave during the avalanche scene (it has some bad edits, or maybe it was a broken film at the theater), stay and be disappointed by the ending (nothing blows up).The beginning is the best and it slowly degrades from there. Perhaps the script writer and editor got tired and stopped trying towards the end of the movie. This movie has some really great scenes, concepts and action sequences. Too bad it couldn't have ended with a better action sequence. The boat vs car chase at the end was simply disappointing. Lame chase scene at about 25 miles per hour (no matter how much you move the camera the vehicles don't really look like they go faster).  Some cool graphics during the end credits though.Some of the explosions looked real, some were obviously computer generated.This might make a good 30 minute show if the bad parts were edited out. "},{"Title":"The X stands for Crap","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Triple X is the type of film which everyone is stupider for having seen, which the world is at a loss for harboring, and which eats away at the integrity of film as a creative medium, as 16M Sulfuric Acid does to tissue paper.  That anyone would willingly allow the creation of such a mindless, poorly-written truckload of intellectually bankrupt drivel is entirely beyond me.  Shame on the writer for accepting money for falling asleep on his keyboard and calling it a script (as well as for soiling the good name of The Vandals, by quoting Anarchy Burger - I hope they got paid a good amount to allow use of their lyrics in this film; and if they didn't, it's time for a copyright infringement lawsuit).  Shame on Vin Diesel for doing a decent film like Boiler Room, and then making The Fast and the Furious look like Schindler's List, by making XXX, all the while accepting the 10 million he demanded for the role.  It was literally a pleasure to see a total of fifteen people in the entire theatre.  It was downright satisfying to see two people leave within the first five minutes.  Hopefully, word of mouth can spread on how awful this is, and we can just let the wretched thing writhe in pain, as it drowns in its own shame for deliberately poisoning so many perfectly good minds.  If you appreciate the fact that your body produces energy for you to perform any function, including seeing movies, you will spare it the humiliation of having wasted all of those nutrients, which it went through lengthy chemical processes to digest, on seeing the cinematic equivalent of septic leakage, known as XXX.  May God have Mercy on our souls.  "},{"Title":"Like a D-grade comic book brought to life.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD***This is a REALLY bad film.  The main culprits  the screenplay and Vin Diesel's acting, both of which are god-awful.  This super-schlocky superspy movie has as it's main bad guy a Czech anarchist who perfectly represents the cinema's current East Bloc baddie stereotype; it must be written in some fabled Screenwriter's Code somewhere All post-Cold War Eastern European villains will have long, greasy hair and five o'clock shadow and will sneer a lot.  Anyway, he's intent on A DEVIOUS PLAN WHICH WILL PLUNGE THE WORLD INTO ANARCHY!  Yes, folks, this is the new breed of spy movie; aren't you excited?  Vin, of course, plays the hero  Xander Cage, an extreme-sports punk who keeps getting in trouble with the law (but kids, his heart is in the right place, god love him!).  Samuel L. Jackson is the NSA bureaucrat who comes up with the only-in-movieland caprice of recruiting Cage to infiltrate and take down the above-mentioned villain's organization.As I mentioned earlier, Diesel does not distinguish himself in this, uh, project.  The only other things I've seen him in are Saving Private Ryan and Pitch Black, in both of which I thought he was good.  But, geez, with XXX, it's like he's suddenly been struck clueless.  I guess he was too busy; he was also an executive producer (which means he was one of those PRIMARILY RESPONSIBLE for this drivel) so he probably couldn't be bothered with mundane matters like delivering dialogue with emotion or establishing character.There are some good things in this movie.  Asia Argento (Dario Argento's daughter, for all you horror fans out there) does a great job as the Love Interest Who Is Forced To Keep Switching Allegiances.  She's tough and sexy but vulnerable too.  Also, there's fantastic footage of the beautiful city of Prague (where most of the film takes place).  And there's a terrifically weird, eye-popping animation sequence over the closing credits.You know, in retrospect, it's kind of lame when the end credits are among the most enjoyable parts of a movie.I see where IMDb already has a listing for XXX 2.The horror...the horror.  "},{"Title":"Move Over James Bond? No!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie a few days ago.  Now, the buzz in the entertainment world has been that this movie is action packed and sends James Bond to the old folks home.  While it is action packed--there is no doubt about that--it just wasn't as good as it was hyped up to be.  I can't exactly put my finger on it, but XXX is missing something.  Maybe it was the fact that Xander Cage seemed to be invincible, (SPOILER...maybe) I mean the bad guys never seemed to get the upper hand on him. All in all, I think a few little improvements here and there would have improved the movie, but it is still definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Move Over James Bond? No!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie a few days ago.  Now, the buzz in the entertainment world has been that this movie is action packed and sends James Bond to the old folks home.  While it is action packed--there is no doubt about that--it just wasn't as good as it was hyped up to be.  I can't exactly put my finger on it, but XXX is missing something.  Maybe it was the fact that Xander Cage seemed to be invincible, (SPOILER...maybe) I mean the bad guys never seemed to get the upper hand on him. All in all, I think a few little improvements here and there would have improved the movie, but it is still definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"not so good one","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  fell in love with my man Vin Diesel and bought XXX vcd.I dont like this movie at all. too much action scenes and confused in the middle of the show, and asked myself what the heck are they doing. only pleasure that I had is seeing vin very sexy and tough and very stylish too. the girl is all right and the rest of the cast as well. remember..all I want is Vin Diesel from XXX. "},{"Title":"`XXX' don't stand for `Love & Kisses'","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, I like James Bond movies as much as the next guy.  I've read the Fleming novels, and one or two of the John Gardner ones.  I've seen all the movies, like Connery and Brosnan, hated Roger Moore.  I even thought George Lazenby did an okay job.  The series started out fairly loyal to the spirit of the Fleming novels, went a little over-the-top in it's far-fetchedness during the 70s and early 80s, but came (sort of) back down to earth with Timothy Dalton's arrival, and has mostly remained so with Brosnan aboard. To get to the point, this niche in the film franchise business is already staked out, and 40 years of movies seems to say that nobody's complaining about how the Bond folks are doing.Well, adrenaline-meister director Rob Cohen doesn't seem to think so.  He seems to think that the spy game genre needs a little smart-ass, a little something to Keep It Real.  Thus, we have XXX.  Cohen's last contribution to cinema immortality, a little exercise in Dumb entitled The Fast and The Furious, made a little money and made a star out of Vin Diesel, a guy who only had about thirty minutes of screen time in it.There's no escaping comparison of this film and the James Bond series. Cohen, Diesel and the film's producers make no bones about claiming this film, and the sequels they claim will follow, is the heir apparent to the Bond series.  They say that Bond is for a past age, one of tuxedos and casino-and-martini lifestyles; XXX has `edge' and `street cred' (their words, not mine).  So, since they put the comparison on the table, I'll play along.  Bond still wins.In XXX, Diesel is Xander Cage, underworld-famous extreme athlete and daredevil criminal, captured by the Feds and offered a choice prison or secret-agent work.  Guess which he chooses.  Samuel L. Jackson (the official King of Cool in today's movies) sends him off to Prague to infiltrate a clan of renegade former Soviet army dudes who want to nerve gas the world.  He does so effortlessly, bags nameless bodacious babes, sweeps the Main Bad Guy's girl off her feet, rides a rocket submarine and saves the world.  No sweat.  Diesel has several one-liners Timothy Dalton would have loved to say, and several of the stunts are just as ridiculous as the powerboat races and spacewalk battles Roger Moore's Bond subjected us to.Something about Bond allows us to forgive some of the over-the-top, though. It's character.  Bond films didn't grow frenetic in pace until several films into the series, allowing the audience that followed those films to, in perception if nothing else, come to know the central character and find a way to buy into the heavy-handed action sequences.  Bond's one-liners are almost always preceded by a beat or two of silence, to allow the circumstance to sink in with the audience, before Connery/Moore/Brosnan, et al, crack wise and go on to the next scene.  Cohen and Diesel never give the audience a chance to catch their breath, much less have anything sink in. Sam Jackson's character has a couple of those moments; one has to wonder why the supposed star of the film doesn't.  Diesel's transition from outlaw anarchist to laugh-in-the-face-of-danger patriot is just too abrupt to be accepted, and thus our willingness to buy into the stunts he executes suffers.And the stunts.  Well, the next-to-last one just didn't fly with me, but good manners keeps me from disclosing the details.  Let's just say Bond's done something similar, and it was hard to swallow, even from him.  The showcase stunts are things one can see for free on the X-Games on ESPN or on the parasailing segments on the Travel Channel, just without the machine guns.  Sure, they're thrilling, but I can't buy into them.  Cohen has demonstrated in film after film that he seems to believe action alone can carry the story he's telling, that if he beats you over the head with enough sound and fury, you'll be too awestruck and stupefied to realize that it signifies nothing.Perhaps I'm just showing my age.  Perhaps Bond is for the old fogies and the current crop of 18 - 34 year-old male moviegoers, that sacred demographic, does indeed need a Secret Agent Man for their own generation.  Wait a minute; I'm still an 18 - 34 year-old male moviegoer!  So much for that argument.  "},{"Title":"Ultra Spy and Super Sly!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is probaly one of the best action films ever. It is James Bond without the suit and all the highteck gadgets (Yet some cool guns etc.). And one of the coolest casts. Vin Diesel Samuel L. Jackson Asia Argento and Martin Csokas. Martin Csokas a rising french actor has done a fabulous job captivating the audience with his evilness. And Asia Argento, where to start. Nuff' sed. Talk To You Later. MPAA Rating PG-13 for violence, nonstop action sequences, senusality, drug content and language My Rating PG-13 for violence, nonstop fighting, some drug content,language and a scene of sensuality "},{"Title":"run of the mill, and pretty boring","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel proved with Pitch Black that he could carry a film on his broad shoulders, but XXX just isn't a worthy breakout role for him. The film is being hailed as a James Bond picture for the next generation, but fails to give us anything different. The film isn't really bad at all, just somewhat dull. It's a movie in which every action scene and every plot device is one that has been used in hundreds of movies before, so we basically know everything that will happen in the movie, therefore it really isn't that exciting. Let's see some originality, some inspired filmmaking. Diesel has the charisma to be a major action star, but let's get him in something better. When you have a popcorn action movie like this, there are two absolute essentials you must have to pass as quality entertainment good villains and memorable one-liners. XXX strikes out on both of these counts. The villains are typical slimy Euros who talk under their breath and glare so that we know that they are evil. The best action movies have great villains, and that usually means having a recognizable actor in the villanous role. Here we have a bunch of no names. Where's John Malkovich? Or Christopher Walken? The one-liners are bad, very bad. I want all this...in here doesn't exactly rank with Yippie-Kay-Yay Mother F***er or Hasta Lavista, Baby in the annals of great action film quips. Without these two elements to raise it from the rest of the pack, XXX is basically another toss-into-the-pile spy flick, a forgettable vehicle for it's star, Diesel.  "},{"Title":"One line says it all Bitches...come!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a community college teacher, I am not looking forward to confronting the rampant new breed of machismo that Vin Diesel promotes in his new crap-fest XXX.  The porno-title is appropriate given that this movie is masturbatory and similar in dramatic structure to the porno.  There is no prevailing logic to the film, and, in fact, most video games have a more comprehensible plot.  No surprise--the movie sucks.  But, as I watched it at the drive-in last night, I wasn't so bothered by the incoherence--it made me laugh.  What I was most bothered by was the thought that this frighteningly mind-numbing piece of celluloid is the pinnacle of popular entertainment at the moment.  What frightens me is that people love it.  Don't pay for it, people!  Don't stand for it!  Demand more!  Don't throw your money into the incinerator known as Hollywood!  Free the dynamic human spirit!Lotso Milazzo's Comment Incomprehensible plotline, self-mastabatory special-effects--felt dumber leaving than when I went in.  Oppressive stuff, Vin!  "}{"Title":"Diesel Fuel!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie rocked from start to finish. I'm not going to give away any movie details. So Diesel, you finally grew into that voice. Back in the day as a bouncer and struggling actor there were some who are now not surprised to see you on the big screen. Cheers! Don't plan to miss any of your future flicks. ;) "},{"Title":"This movie has cheddar spelled all over it.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I usually enjoy films that are usually just strictly entertaining and nothing else.  But this film had some parts which were so unbelievably cheesy I found myself laughing, not because it was funny, but because it was so stupid.  I wanted to see it because I had read in magazines that people think Vin Diesel will replace James Bond in the new age spy movies.  Well if this is a new age spy movie, it sucks!  I'll take the ol' English chap James any day over this garbage. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie ever made","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love a good action movie.  But unless you are the target audience for this movie (13 year old males) this is not the movie to see.  The dark, vulgar undertones of this movie traumatized my nervous system almost as much as the loud continuous noise and explosions that did not cease from film beginning to film end.  The special effects attempted to be breathtaking, but the CGI in this film was poor at best.  Many times I found myself shaking my head as Vin Diesel rushed into danger in a clearly fake CGI world.  Then there is the acting and script.  What acting and script?  I truly think that they were making this up as they went along.  Have we really sunk this low that we are expected to be entertained with noise, explosions, and special effects without the benefit of meaningful acting and scripting.  I feel insulted.  The only redeeming factor of this movie (and I mean the only redeeming factor) was Samuel L. Jackson's performance.  But this was not enough to salvage this poor excuse for a movie.  This really could be the worst movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Hands down, one of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Please don't waste your time with this movie.  Don't allow the marketing muscle of the studios or the hype surrounding Diesel convince you that this worth your time.  My friends almost gave me a serious beat-down for making go see this POS.  This movie insulted me, my friends, and our intelligence. The Script was horrible, the action scenes were endless and ridiculous, and the supposed funny lines were simply horrible.  Look, you can probably get funnier lines from Alan Greenspan than the 'funny' lines in this film.The avalanche scene ranks as one of the worst and least-believable scenes I've ever had the displeasure of watching.   "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Films I Have Ever Seen","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a bad, bad film.  I will forever judge this film to others by saying Ok, that film sucked, but did it suck as MUCH as XXX did?  You should avoid this film at all costs.  I thought that Spider-Man was bad but now XXX has given me a new definition of bad.  This film is not only BORING but a repetitively clichéd action film generously enhanced by the poor acting, horrible dialogue, and yawn-inspiring action sequences.  If you want to see a good film this summer, see Road To Perdition, if you want to feel like Alex in the brainwashing scene of A Clockwork Orange, by all means, do yourself a disservice and go see XXX.  Thank you.  "},{"Title":"From bad to worse....","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"       Let me start by saying that I did not enjoy this movie at all. There were moments when I found myself either a. shocked into silence by the absurdity of the thing or b. laughing at the complete implausibility of some of the scenes or the horrendous dialogue.        Given this I will concede the fact that the action sequences were for the most part well choreographed. Some of the special effects were also great.       But unfortunately this does not make up for the poor script, wooden acting and a disappointing performance by Samuel L. Jackson. The plot was poorly developed and vital information went unexplained for far too long.     I really, really wanted to like this movie but my tolerance of stupidity can only be stretched so far.      Go see this if you want to waste $10 and 2 hours. "},{"Title":"An Embarrassment","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lack of a story....miserable writing....bad acting....one dimensional characters....cliche after cliche....bad directing....it's a sad state of affairs when movie makers throw this crap out at you and it makes money. it only means there is an even worse sequel in the making.  "},{"Title":"These guys never heard of the laws of physics!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is so overrated simply because it is your typical action movie minus believable actions. The villian is another hollywood stereotype of a russian mad-man. Why are all these movies so politicly correct having the good guy always win and never once getting shot even with the problem of over 10 guys all firing at you and still missing, is there aim that bad. In conclusion this movie is a bad excuse to make money off the working class.  "},{"Title":"Bad but good","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you were hoping for a James Bond flick.. you were disappointed. If you were looking for a action flick... you were happy. The movie, as a whole, was good. Yes, there were points in the movie where you just wanted to stop watching (ie. snowboarding scene), but the CGI did a great job with what they had to work with. Diesel did some of his own stunts, cool. The cars were awesome, cool. The soundtrack was great, cool. The dialogue was... luke warm, not so cool. Like Meatloaf said, Two out of three ain't bad. If you want James Bond, go see Die Another Day (when it comes out), if you want to see stunts, action, and funny one-liners (bitches, come) then see XXX. Sum up... Great movie, if you weren't expecting a great movie.  "},{"Title":"What a waste of money","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have heard this plot line so many times it isn't even funny anymore, a man in trouble with the law gets a second chance if he works for the government, wow i wounder how many times i have heard that plot. I almost feel sorry for the actors that have anything to do with this (bleep) movie "}{"Title":"Stop thinking practical, start thinking Hollywood.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why is it movies like this make money? This movie felt like it was 6 hours long, it wouldn't end! People should stop spending money on a movie because the main actor is a 'hottie' and because the movie has GTOs in it. This movie was just a James Bond movie that was a little more pro-american. This movie made me sick, don't see it if you have a brain in your head. "},{"Title":"xXx rates a zzz...","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx must rank among the most insultingly stupid scripts of theyear, ineptly directed in terms of actor/character direction, andmindnumbingly dumbed down for its presumably intended  audience.  I almost walked out of xXx at least five times but it wasjust so unfathomably bad that I was glued to the screen out of pureshock.  Aside from probably the least-sexy screen kiss ever, Vin Dieseldoes little to distinguish himself as an actor in this vehicle.  Hislines are delivered as though being read off cue cards.  The plot isinsipid, predictable and, surprisingly, even dated (aside from thenotion of biological weapons -- no, wait, that's been done beforeand better, too).  Not a single element in this movie aside from the inclusion ofevery imaginable extreme sport is anything that hasn't alreadybeen included in a Bond film.  Ironically, the first scene in xXx isdesigned to let the audience know they are NOT watching a Bondmovie.  It's a tongue-in-cheek (if mean-spirited, like much of therest of the film) nod at the Bond franchise that suggests this movieis going to go places Bond would never dare.  Well, if goingsomewhere completely lacking in class and wit is where theyintended, that is just about the only fresh ground covered.  Sointent were the producers on out-Bonding Bond that they ended upcreating only a pale, inexplicably illogical, dull imitation.  If all aviewer wants is to see some cool extreme sports stunts, renting aspecialized video ought to be a much more fulfilling experience,especially since the stunts will be real and not riddled with editinggimmicks and digital enhancements. "},{"Title":"Can we say James Bond wantabe?","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How many times has James Bond like characters come along and tried to make it big on the silver screen?  I bet if this character comes back for a sequel, it will be the last.  I think the action was good, but not great.  I know this one will never be in my DVD collection! "},{"Title":"Promises action, not rigor","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It promises action and it delivers. Once again, however, a million bullets can't hit the good guy. Or making motorcycles jump 25 feet in the air with a good upwards tug. Okay, turn a blind eye to that stuff it didn't promise rigor. I enjoyed it, but for well-tempered action, see the made for TV German movie, Der Tunnel. This will give perspective on how Hollywood movie-making conventions fall short in the tension department. "},{"Title":"Where's the eXXXit?","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  'XXX' is a film for the Play Station generation and when Zander Cage (Vin Diesel) proclaims I like something fast enough to do something stupid in, you know he's going to get it.'XXX' is an action film, a thriller and a bit of a mystery to me. What's Samuel Jackson doing here? Did he lose a bet? Vin Diesel was quite at home among the beautifully illustrated, strategically pierced Eurotrash.  Why is it always the a-holes who pass the test? was posed by a regular agent about the motley collection of recruits. Is he referring to the screen test. But then  I thought Vin Diesel was a wine to be served with at tailgate parties.  Everything about this film is beyond belief. The effects are brutal - I believe no animals were harmed in it's filming however a stunt double was killed- the dialog punishing - the things I'm gonna do for my country says Cage as he moves on a perky seductress- and the plot derivative - Cage is offered a get out of jail free card if he works for the agency. What's that smell?  A sequel perhaps? Nature has a way of washing clean our mistakes as Prague, the scene of this crime, is now half submerged.You won't fall asleep on this one unless you can snooze through an earthquake. And those among you who are serious first person shooter game fans will love XXX.  For the rest of us, summer is fleeting.Let's get some sun.  "},{"Title":"pthhhhh","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has the following  bad acting, no plot, unbelievable characters, unbelievable stunts.  I saw it on a Saturday matinee, but I still spent too much.  I wonder if some junior high students wrote the script as a school project.   I should have seen Signs instead. "},{"Title":"Big, loud, and just plain silly","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILERS XXX is the perfect summer movie stereotype. You've got action, some loud rock music, everything the kids could possibly want, right? Well, partially. See, while to some extent the stunts and cool gizmos jazzed me enough to pay attention, after years of studying MST3K I couldn't help but notice the amateurish storyline, or, more specifically, the sheer lack thereof. See, Vin Diesel is Xander Cage, an extremely slick mo-fo who tapes himself jacking cars just to stick it to The Man. He's gotten a pretty strong following in the underground sports circuit, but he's about to get one huge surprise. Turns out a secret organization (led by the always cool Samuel L. Jackson) wants to hire Cage to get some info on some really bad foreign guys. It seems the old ways of dressing up in a tuxedo and using laser watches just aren't working anymore, and they need a new type of secret agent to get the job done. Xander refuses at first, still not wanting to work for The Man, but he has no other choice. Either he takes the mission, or his criminal record catches up with him. That's pretty much all you need to know before going to actually see it, which I recommend if only for the sensory overload the movie delivers. The avalanche race really blew me away, but other scenes (like the one in Columbia where just about every building goes kaboom) seemed to drag on for too long. Also, the main bad guy Yorgi, whose name, by the way, is one letter away from being Hanna Barbarish, never seemed really bad ass or anything. And his plan was pretty much your standard, WAY too complicated trip involving some virus rockets and a giant submarine. Things get pretty dumb by the time the curtains lower, like when XXX solves the problem of a virus rocket shooting into space by, yes, turning it upside down. Genius, Xander! Oh, and is it just me or did the ending seem way out of character for this hero? I would think he'd avoid sitting on a deck chair and go surf some waves on a plutonium powered 'board, wouldn't you? Pretty silly stuff all in all, from the cheesy brother of the villain to the great subtitles like, Life is s**t. Yeah, but what can you do? See it, then forget it. **/**** "},{"Title":"IF only he could play cards...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  OH please anyone who attempts at seeing greatness in this film is looking far too deep into the shallow inch of film-making which, is XXX.First the film could not have ripped off of James Bond more blantantly, namely THe SPy WHo Loved me. From the car, to the rival spy is nearly a spot on match to the above film. Second the film is unbelievable, now of course that's the basis of almost all action films but this one especially so, outracing an avalanche, c'mon. Lastly they ripped off of the glorious Dr. Strangelove, with the whole AHab riding at the end. 1/10,  i reccomend no other films "},{"Title":"No amount of CGI wizardry can hide the lunkhead in front","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Howlingly bad.  My friends were laughing in their seats at the absurdity of the action, the lameness of the dialogue, and ultimately, the thickheadedness of this main actor. Oh, and everybody has tattoos.  A truly ridiculous movie.  It's aimed at the most low-brow 15-year-old boys you can imagine.  It's an insult to fifteen year olds everywhere.I wish it was worth seeing just for the camp of it (like Showgirls), but it's not.  Turkey.  "},{"Title":"Is $45 million a lot or a little with that much advertising?","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXXAll that is `XXX' can be summed up by describing one scene in the movie.  It's the scene where you see him in the trailer snowboarding in front of an enormous avalanche.  In the film he parachute off a helicopter onto a mountain, snowboards to the edge of a cliff, presses two detonators to begin the avalanche and races it down the mountain.  The avalanche is, of course, impressive and obviously fake CG.  It takes out a communications base and he gets covered with snow on top of a telephone pole.  Immediately after getting snowed in he says a one-line catch phrase and the bad guys catch him.  Now&#133;pop quiz WHY DIDN'T THEY DROP THE EXPLOSIVES FROM THE CHOPPER?  And that is why `XXX' was what it was.  It went to ridiculous  lengths to set up huge stunt sequences all of which were obviously being handled by about 20 people and computer graphics.  Some day soon people like a certain Lucas are going to have to suck it up and realize that digital doesn't thrill because people DON'T believe these things are happening in three-dimensional space, the same reason that viewers were thrilled by the camera movements in Spider-man but not by the digitally produced actions of the main character because he didn't exist.  It's still a fun ride, but a removed one, and that makes all the difference.  Oh, and Asia Argento is seriously seriously hot.  "}{"Title":"Not a total loss","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I didn't expect great things. My premonition was correct. The plot fell apart faster and became boring within the first 45 minutes. However, three points that make the movie worth seeing are the awesome stunts, the awesome cars, and of course, Vin Diesel. "},{"Title":"This review is a little but about XXX","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  But mostly it's about Vin Diesel.  Ladies and gentlemen of the general public, we have a new action hero.  I remember Saving Private Ryan.  I remember excellent performances from a superb ensemble cast; solid, thought-out direction; and a good, meaningful film.  I didn't remember the name of the guy who played Private 1st Class Adrian Caparzo.  It was Pitch Black where I first really noticed this guy.  Riddick was a great villain. Bad as ass can be, yet he had heart, compassion.  He was a real human being that could do horrible things, and he was all the more scary for it.  I went to see the movie because of the monsters.  I'm a glutton for scary.  I enjoyed the film because of the engaging story, the great cast (again), and fantastic FX.  I saw it again, and bought the DVD, because of Diesel.  Oh, sure, and those other reasons, I can't lie to you.  But he was a seriously cool bad guy, and of a form we hadn't really seen yet.  I had a feeling about this guy.  I couldn't wait to see what he did next.  Then it turned out to be a car movie.  <sigh>  Fan-bloody-tastic.  Another X-Games meets MTV flick for the kids who don't like to think with their movies. Directed by who?  With the jock from Pleasantville?  No thanks.  Not my type of film, thank you very much.  Unfortunately, none of my friends went to see it either, so that they could tell me the impressions I got from the trailers (useless, useless trailers) were wrong.  Well, I eventually heard enough good things about the movie (and Vin) to put it on my Netflix list. A couple weeks ago, I got it into my player, and was really surprised by how good and solid it was.  It wasn't just a street racing movie for Gen X-ers. Or whatever generation digs that stuff nowadays.  It was about the people who did the racing.  That was cool.  Paul Walker was ok (see my review of Joy Ride for more on him), but Vin was excellent.  Commanding, cool, and angst-ridden.  Until I saw that, I wasn't really looking forward to this new Triple X thing that was coming.  The new James Bond, indeed.  There's nothing wrong with the old James Bond.  Or so I thought.  Then I went top the theater today and saw him try to infiltrate the lair of crime syndicate Anarchy '99.  They were having a rave that night, and Secret Agent Man didn't quite fit in with his tux and well-manicured good looks.  A sharpshooter for the bad guys was easily able to pick him out of the crowd and pop a cap in his blond behind.  Obviously things have changed.  We need an agent who can infiltrate the new world of crime.  The ones who go to underground night clubs and raves, instead of mansions and dance the tango. This is where Vin comes in.  He starts XXX (his code name) as a performer of stunts for an underground video/internet service thing, I don't know.  He has a cause, and it's got a reason, and he's punishing somebody for something, but that's not really important because he drives a car off of a bridge and parachutes out of it.  This guy is cool.  And during a series of tests in which he is recruited into the NSA by Samuel L Jackson, he proves that he's also smart and compassionate.  So they send him in to infiltrate Anarchy '99.  Which is kinda funny because they all turn out to be big fans of his stunt work.  Being in the underground themselves, they've got the tapes, and you see. well, it doesn't matter.  Yada, yada, yada, one things leads to another, X gets himself a cool car, a cool gun, a pair of X-ray specs (get it?), and he has to save the world.  Along the way he performs what I believe to be a stunt we have never seen on film to date.  And (though I realize The Matrix Reloaded is less than a year away), I find it hard to believe a movie will be able to top the excitement of seeing this guy race an avalanche down a mountainside.  Oh, come on, I didn't ruin anything, you saw it in the trailer.  Um, but I won't tell you why he races the avalanche.  Aha.  Happy?  It's cool, guys.  Well directed, well acted. Asia Argento and Marton Csokas both deserve kudos for their turns as the love interest and the villain of the film, respectively.And the best part?  The pair of ladies (mid-forties, I'd say) I was sitting next to in the theater who obviously never so much as seen a music video or been to a dance club (I hope), and had to comment on a lot of the stuff that was happening on-screen, were enjoying the hell out of themselves.  I did to. "},{"Title":"Behold the power of cheese.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anybody who is interested in this film to see intelligent dialougue, brilliantly written plots, wonderful acting, and overall charismatic characters, run, run like the wind. Anyone who knows this will be a film with a laughable plot, missing logic, half-arsed acting, a soundtrack consisting of the three basic musical elements of the modern action flick 1) nu-metal 2) rap 3) techno, cheap, shallow, laughable hollywood sex, and impossible but VERY impressive stunts, go see XXX.I don't know the story behind the conseption of the movie, but I am pretty sure that the team that brought us The Fast and the Furious, after gorging on Playstation and one of those Bond movie weekends on TBS, they said to themselves Dude, we should make a spy flick! Apparently they brought the X-games with them.But who is to play this XXX character? Arnold is busy with politics, Mr. Willis is off being a serious actor, no one knows where VanDamme is, and Jackie Chan and Jet Li have most likely filled their schedules with their own projects. The other up and coming action star, The Rock, is busy too, with movies and wrestling. So why not take a very small risk and give it to Vin Diesel. Personally I like Vin, he can't act well, but for some reason he's a likable actor, maybe it's because he looks like a guy you might see on the street.So as far as the character of XXX, he is an expert all around extreme sportsman, who has perfected everything from snowboarding to dirtbiking. He's uses these talents to steal the cars of congressmen who protest against rap & videogames. He videotapes the stunts so that he can recieve all the attention he feels he deserves. Oh, it gets cheesier than this. The U.S. government makes him become a secret agent for their organization (in exchange for a clean criminal record), to stop a group of Russian ex-military anarchists from using a submarine to detonate missiles of a deadly virus over the world's major city.Yorgi (the villain) and his band of goons, called Anarchy 99, are laughably bad Russian villian stereotypes, and only one of them even looks like he came from northern Europe.Xander Cage (XXX), shouldn't really be compared to 007, but more to John McClane (Mr. Willis' character from the Die Hard trilogy). He holds a very human quality to all of the events in the film, he complains, he wisecracks, he acts like this whole thing is a big pain in his butt, but in the end he knows it's the right thing to do. Yelena is a disposable female role, and Asia Argento probably only took this role for extra cash inbetween Maxim photo shoots. The person who definately looks like he is having the most fun in this movie is Samuel L. Jackson, who gets to play the head honcho who bosses around XXX. Samuel as always is loveable.As far as the stunts, well they are the star of the show. My jaw was almost on the floor with the avalanche scene. All of the stunts may be impossible to pull off, but they look extremely good and extremely exciting. The one I had a real problem with believing is when XXX uses a small metal food tray as a skateboard to grind down the railing of some steps. Of course now that I think about it, I'm sure we could get a castmember of Jackass to pull that off.Other cool features are the cameos, including rap-starlet Eve (waaaay better than having Ja Rule in it), Tony Hawk, Matt Hoffman, Leila Arcieri, and the best one, the German industrial rock band, Rammstein.I can definately recommend XXX to all movie fans who like to laugh at B-movie plots and acting, and I can recommend it to anyone who really likes movie stunts. XXX is a enjoyable movie secret agent, which we are definately going to see in sequels, but he isn't going to be putting Bond in the unemployment line anytime soon. "},{"Title":"XXX makes James Bond look like a wimp.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have not seen such intense action since True Lies and the two Mission Impossible movies. Vin Diesel seems perfectly cast has Xander Cage a sports nut and somewhat thief is recruited by a special agent operative(We'll played by Samuel L. Jackson)because he likes Xander's nack for adventure and his fearless attidude, to infiltrate a russian criminal, and to find what plan does he have up his sleeve on world domination. I can't wait for the sequel. This movie was one big rollercoaster ride. Where the action almost never stops. My opinion it's the best time at the movies. For action fans you won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have never been so bored with an action movie in my entire life. I just can't fathom anyone finding the action scenes exiting. They are SOOOOO drawn out and over the top it's like the director is laughing at you with every sequence. I went into this expecting a fun and at least somewhat SMART action movie ala James Bond or Mission Impossible. What I got was a Universal Studios stunt show with high school drama dialogue. The only somewhat exiting sequence is the snow boarding one and even with that you have to suspend ALL disbelief. Overall an absolute horrid and pointless piece of trash. When this goes to DVD I'm sure I'll see it in the comedy section.(one out of five stars) "},{"Title":"What a dog!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When you are sitting watching an action film and the only thing you can think of is, 'Well, at least a lot of stuntmen got work', there is something wrong with the film.  In this film, there are too many problems to list. However, here are a few.Where was the writer?  Obviously, the script was bought and the writer was not brought aboard to work on it as the film went on.  The story was weak and beaten to death.  Disgruntled foreigner gets mad and wants to kill everybody and cause worldwide panic.  Wow.  What a concept.  Actually, if done properly, it can be a good concept.  There were only a few things running against it being truly good.  They are Vin Diesel, the Director, the production crew and the continuity supervisor.  Unfortunately, all of these were involved in this film.The continuity alone is enough to drive the average viewer insane.  From a GTO that can drive through Prague at 80 MPH (in the city), but can't go that fast in straight-aways to a deadly toxin that is rendered impotent by water. Water?  Yes.  Water.  I guess no one wanted to do any research and look for compounds that don't dilute quickly and become ineffective in water.  Am I asking too much in asking to SOME thought process while developing this film?Then there is Vin Diesel.  I can guarantee you, he was a much better bouncer than he ever will be an actor.  Does he have only one tone to his voice? It's okay for a short film or small part in a film, but a whole feature? It's like listening to Schwarzenegger, but he can do some acting.  A body and a voice do not an actor make.  Do you know who Jeff Chandler is? Exactly!Stay away from this film like the plague.  It's just bad.  The only good thing is the lead female who is a Russian spy.  If all spies looked like her and moved like her, there would be chaos in the world.  Unfortunately, it is not worth the $9.00 to go see her only.  It would be best to get it on cheap rental day at the video store.  Then, get a group of people together to pull money to 'share the pain'.  Hey, $0.50 out of your pocket is better than $9.00.I'd rather watch Howard the Duck again.I'm going to go get a mint.  Just thinking of this film makes my stomach sour. "},{"Title":"Bad, Very Bad","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Everything about XXX was stupid and for the most part pathetic.  How can you even compare 007 with XXX?  I've heard that a XXX sequel is already in the works; I can only hope they stop the second and throw out the first.I can give this movie one credit.  The special effects were good.  However it doesn't even come close to making up for the bad script, lack of acting talent, and the two hours I spent watching it that I will never get back.I must say I enjoyed the 60 second Die Another Day teaser more than the entire XXX film. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's New Low.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was able to see XXX a few nights ago, and was quite excited prior to the opening credits to the film. The movie's opening was good, a dark gothic death-metal club paints a very morbid picture of the movie's bad guy. After this point the movie portrays nothing more than Hollywood's attempt to turn a video game into a movie, only that video games are much more believable than this movie. This trifle of a film only shows what not to do as a follow up to a blockbuster that you had the previous summer. With unbelievable characters, and even worse dialogue, this film should be forgotten by all that see it.  However the movie does have an upside, the soundtrack consisting of such bands as HateBreed, Rammstein, and Bush's Gavin Rossdale provides somewhat of an escape from the harsh reality of the movie. "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I hated The Fast and The Furious, but I wanted to like this.  It had potential.  But the problem is that for some unknown reason studios keep on hiring Rob Cohen to make movies, and he ruins them.  I mean, come on, XXX was terrible.  The script was god awful, worse than The Fast and The Furious.  The acting, besides Vin Diesels was terrible.  And the film looked awful.  Rob Cohen does not know how to properly compose a shot.  Everything just looked atrocious.  And the fact that people are comparing this to James Bond makes me sick.  And Bond film, even Timothy Daltons, were better than this.  It was so blatantly trying to appeal to 12 year old boys and was disgusting, always talking about playstations and skateboarding.  Enough already.  Vin Diesel tries to say that he is a secret agent kids can identify with.  Hmmmm.  Young boys identifying with a muscular 30 something year old tattoed covered man who is antisocial and drives cars off of bridges, who travels to Prague to fight a World Crime Organization, and while he's at it has lots of sex with exotic european women.  I can't think of one young boy that can identify with that.  They they just because he mentions playstations and skateboarding and he snowboards abit kids can identify with him?  James Bond was doing extreme sports long before it was cool and trendy.  James Bond kicks XXX ass any day.  XXX is a sell out. The movie stinks. XXX could have been good.  But alas, now we are stuck with yet another crappy franchise.  Maybe XXX2 will be just as good as the Skulls 2. "},{"Title":"Absurdly typical summer action movie to tout the Vin Diesel mystique.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Predictably loud, action-packed, new-wave, adolescent spy movie for the summer multiplex crowd.  It's all more of a publicity stunt than a  thriller and more like a video game than a real movie.  Generally unoriginal, it's about as fun a thrill ride as you choose to let it be. I can't really recommend the picture because everything about it is compromised by the obligatory PG-13 rating imposed by the current, so-called studio system.  Inevitably, it should make Vin the latest in a long line of wise-cracking, weight-lifting action stars.   "}{"Title":"Worst movie since Batman & Robin","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Awful! A cinematic disaster at it's worst. I expect more from Diesal (Saving Private Ryan, The Fast and the Furious)... perhaps Knockaround Guys in the fall will be better. This is the worst movie to hit the silver screen since George Clooney and CO. stunk it up in 1997's Batman & Robin... "},{"Title":"Disapointing","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in to XXX knowing full well it would be a brainless action movie. I knew in advance that the movie was mostly just a vehicle to display some over the top X-TREME sports (Vin battles evil on the skateboard ramp). But even with these cautiously low expectations I was still very disappointed.  The action scenes, for the most part, were pretty exciting. The problem was all the bits in-between.  They plodded along at a snail's pace with no conceivable direction whatsoever.  For instance, characters who were introduced in the beginning disappear, only now they're evil and promptly get shot minutes later.  Predictable T&A and shots of expensive cars are thrown in for the male viewers, while scenes with Vin walking around in saggy underwear is thrown in for the girls.  All they needed to do was toss in a few scenes featuring a computer generated robot and every teen on the planet would have gone to see it.As far as dialog goes, imagine a bad Arnold Schwarzenegger movie fused with a James Bond film.  Why, you'd have True Lies then, wouldn't you?  But where True Lies worked with the humour of the unlikeliness of Arnold being a secret agent, XXX falls flat.  While Vin seems to be capable of rattling off his lines in a convincing tone, the one-liners were out of place and poorly written.  The dialog was wooden and often very redundant.  What one character explained in an earlier scene is then re-explained by another character.Finally, the action, the real reason anyone goes to see a movie like this. Bad acting, poor script, no problems right?  as long as we see lots of explosions we're happy.  For the most part this holds true in XXX, the stunts are pretty exciting.  However, almost everyone who has seen the film would agree that the stunts he performs are so over the top they'd be impossible to execute.  What I found annoying about the action sequences is how they seemed to find a way to tie in the extreme sports aspect into everything.  For example, if XXX needed to jump a fence then he suddenly discovers a dirt bike.  If he needs to disable a radio tower on a mountain why it do it by snowboarding infront of a giant avalanche.  If he needs to escape a sniper then a lunch try will easily double as a skateboard with which to rail slide down 5 flights of stairs.  This guy is incapable of escaping a situation normally; he couldn't just run away, he'd have to rollerblade away or something.Probably the best character in the whole movie was XXX's equivalent to James Bond's Q.  This guy's snappy upbeat delivery as he showed off the gadgets really made the whole gadget segments a lot more enjoyable.So to conclude, this movie was a major letdown.  I went in with low expectations but this movie was too boring and unoriginal to even meet those. "},{"Title":"Loved Vin but the stunts were rather silly","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'd say this is one of the better movies I have seen this year. I really like Vin Diesel and his funny one liners. As a matter of fact, I thought this movie was funnier than the new Austin Powers movie. I had to laugh at the silly action scenes. I don't know if that is what the director intended, but they sure were funny. The whole snowboard sequence was way over the top.  And it looked like Triple X had a flying motorcycle in the first half hour.  If they couldn't make the motorcycle part at least a little realistic, then it should have been cut from the movie.  The exchanges between Gibbons and Triple X were really good and funny.  Sam Jackson had this role nailed down.I do have to complain about the music. It was too loud in some parts and boring in other parts.  And I didn't really think Triple X and Yelena had much chemistry.  And I didn't think the ending was that great. I mean, they had all these over the top stunts throughout the movie, and the lamest stunt is at the end. (SPOILERS) There was nothing that great about Triple X simply turning the missile the other way around.  And he just kills the head bad guy by causing him to crash his boat.  We should have gotten to see Triple X knock Yorgi's teeth out or something.  Maybe he could have knocked him around with a skate board.(END OF SPOILERS)FINAL VERDICT  One of the funniest movies of the summer. Don't take any of it seriously and you will have a good time! "},{"Title":"Triple Hokey","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I knew deep down that this was going to be typical big-bang-little-plot-hot-babes-impossible-stunts kind of movies. But I still wanted to see this movie. Fast and the Furious was surprisingly entertaining, so I thought the combo of Vin Diesel and Rob Cohen would produce similar results. And XXX is surprisingly entertaining, only because it's unintentionally hysterical.The action is very similar to any John Woo movie. But while the over the top action in Woo movies is still very cool, the over the top action in XXX is just over the top. Vin Diesels first stunt is pretty cool, but after that, its just beyond believable, and you find yourself laughing at the ridiculous stunts.There's also all these unnecessary aspect of the movie, I don't want to give anything away, but stuff happens and you think okay, that serves no purpose You can see the plot twists coming a mile away, and the whole thing is just poorly executed.If you want to see a decent spy movie, go see the Bourne Identity. But if you want a good laugh, XXX is good for it. "},{"Title":"Move over 007!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Awesome movie, Just way above my expectations. I thought the action and stunts were amazing, there is one avalanche scene that blew my mind. Vin Diesel is definatly a B list actor who is probably an A list actor now because this movie is doing well in the box office. This was a very expensive B-movie that never gets boring and keeps your jaw dropped to the floor through the whole time, whether it may be the stunts that do it or staring at sexy italian actress ms. Argento. I thought the Gadgets in the the 007 series are cooler and so are those amazing european cars but XXX uses gadgets that are far more realistic and not too far fetched like 007's. XXX rides around in a hot Pontiac GTO , a pure American classic, finally a movie about our secret agency, that is just as smart as the 007 flicks with a little extra hardcore attitude. *** 3 stars! there should definatly be a part 2 and that movie would have a bigger budget. "},{"Title":"TRIPLE XXX TRIPLE SUCKED!!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen better commericials on Public Access Televsion, that were more entertaining than this film! No disrespect to Vin Diesel, Asia Argento, or any of the actors and crew. But this is by far the WORST film I have ever seen, and I've seen plenty of bad films. This film couldn't have been any worse, the dialogue was beyond dreadful, who ever concieved the idea of writing this film, then eventually putting it to script, should be taken out and stoned to death! The directing was awful, the acting was painful to watch. What's scary is that Vin Diesel is a decent actor, why would he sell out like that, by doing such an embarrassing and horrible film? I guess it truly is about money, I suppose art and having value in what you do just doesn't matter anymore, but hey to each his own. As far as Samuel L. Jackson I lost respect for him after Shaft.  There was just simply nothing good to say about this film. Given that this is an action film, and that plot and substance seem to not be big players in the grand scheme of things, but there was no story, there was nothing. It seemed as if the film makers, were like hey lets make a quick action flick, blow up a few things, throw in some half naked girls, a decent looking leading man, and we'll make lots of money. And that's exactly what they did. And the fact that they keep calling this the new breed of secret agent, makes me sick to my stomach. I know that Hollywood is probably at its worse right now as far as films are concerned but this one just simply took it too far. I found myself daydreaming during the film, thinking about things I had to do later. And why is it that people think non-stop action is great!? As far as I'm concerned everyone who participated in the making of this film should be embarrassed, its a travesty! Hey this is only my opinion, but I left the movie theatre literally enraged, I wanted to gain back the 2 hours of my life lost, watching the piece of crap film. If you want to loose major intelligent points then go see this film, I'm quite sure, your I.Q will drop more then 30 points!  What's even more ashamed, is being that the majority of American audiences probably thought it was a good film. And we wonder why nobody likes us. "},{"Title":"Nice stunts, but overall weak.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although Vin Diesel has a great deal of star power, he needs to choose his new roles better, in my opinion.  XXX was hackneyed, poorly scripted tripe which had the slight benefit of decent special effects and lots of explosions.  The production design was lame, the costuming decent, and the character interaction laughably bad.For a good spy thriller, catch Alias and skip XXX. "},{"Title":"Worse than Starship Troopers","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a fan of Starship Troopers (horrible movie, but fun to watch).  This doesn't even compare.  The acting is mediocre, love scenes are terrible, and the action scenes are so far fetched a 12 year old would think it was fake. I like Vin Deisel and Samuel L. Jackson, but am very much disappointed with the both of them for accepting this script. SPOILER - An example of the degree of fake-i-tude this moive provides is when XXX seems to 'bunny hop' the dirtbike 13 feet in the air, pivot to horizontal, and repivot upright again after he passes through the barbed wire fence. In short, you waste 7 dollars paying for this horrible shell of a movie.  The lead female, Asia Argento, needs braces almost as the script needed an overhaul.   "},{"Title":"Major Sucks","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I hope you like unbelievably loud death metal.  That's the first hour. The next James Bond?  Vin is a terrible actor and the plot is undentifiable for the first hour.  I love really loud rock and roll but I was holding my ears during the death metal music 1/2 of the movie and the avalance scene.The gadgets are lame and the camera work is so close it's amateurish with scenes lasting 1 second before the camera has to switch.  MTV crap.If theaters would give you your money back if you left in the first half hour I would have left.  And the previews never end either!   arghhh I thought this would be a great action movie like True Lies or something. What a lame excuse for a film.Enjoy ! "},{"Title":"This was one of Vins hottest films..literally","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ive been waiting to see xXx for a long time and when my friend and i found out that it wasnt playing at the place we were at... we ran out at 12 am to go catch the 1215 show... which was 45 minutes away. (lets just say that fitting 5 people in a 2 seater truck for 45 minutes was definetly worth it.) We got to the movies and had to wait in line to go into the theatre. luckily we got seats in the back row. Going through all that trouble to see Vin again was most definetly worth it. Hes gorgeous, hes a great actor and he doesnt take crap from anyone. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves Vin, extreme sports, explosive fun and adrenaline rush. So what if you think the movie stunk..at least you get to see Vin in his boxers!! "}{"Title":"Impressive!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is a very good movie that has some of the most impressive stunts and action sequences I've ever seen, and I've seen them all! Director Rob Cohen makes a quantum leap from 2001's Fast and the Furious about petty thievery to XXX about international espionage. And with him he takes Vin Diesel who defines Action Hero. The movie is about the NSA recruiting criminals to get deep into the heart of the scum that and villainy that threatens national security. Many people are saying that XXX will replace the aging James Bond franchise. First off, James Bond will never die and second (as the tagline says)this is a new breed of action hero, for the teen crowd, for the ones that like to see rappers in movies. Not the sophicticates that are fans of Bond. Even the first scene in which a very James Bond type of secret agent is killed when he tries to infiltrate the villain's very 90's type of night club, indicates that Bond is over and XXX is here. Thats the only part that I didn't like. Even the animation in the end credits is great! But by far the best action scene of the year is a scene where XXX jumps a house on a motorcycle while it explodes. That will make anyone, even a action movie junkie say WOW!RATING*** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Just stupid enough","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Triple-X is a pure celebration of everything stupid that guys should love. It teaches us that X-treme sports make you a superhero, violent video games teach you everything you need to know about life, and that anarchists get the chicks. What red-blooded male wouldn't want to see the movie? "},{"Title":"So bad, it's perverse.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  So much can be said, I don't know where to start. We can start with plot, but no one went to see this movie thinking about the plot. So forget the terrible plot. Acting?  Well let's just say that Vin Diesel has had two good performances in his career. The first being Multi-facial and the second being Riddick in Pitch Black. Other than that he's been this jacked guy that don't talk too good on a lot of valium.It doesn't matter what is said, this film will make it's money back and then some. Thus spawning a sequel. I hope Rob Cohen gets the axe and they fix this disgusting monster they have created. The action is Lifeless except for The Ski Scene. It was good. Thing is, if you put a monkey slapping another monkey with a banana in the middle of the film I probably would have thought that was good as well. Don't get me worng I love action movies. for example Bond (anything but moore), The last boyscout, true lies, beverly hills cop, boondock saints, cliffhanger, die hard, etc. This was just unacceptable. They just came in and p***ed on a whole genre with this movie.I would rank this film up there with movies like Kung Pow, Broken Arrow, Low Down Dirty Shame, any of Jean Claudes Van Damme's latest straight to video films, Hard Rain, Exit Wounds, Last Action Hero, Eddie Murphy's Metro, The Chaos Factor, any movie featuring more than two rappers, you get the idea.Don't see this movie if you are reading this. Girls if you think Vin's cute that's great. Buy a picutre of him. It's cheaper. If people support this they will make more. It's the WWF (wwe) on crack. It's made for video on the big screen. It's enough to make you sick. Shame on you.  "},{"Title":"This movie was a waste of the 35-mm stock it was shot on.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel's extreme sports approach to the spy saga was illogical, witless, and just plain stupid.  All aspects of this movie were flawed.  The stunt work may seem entertaining and fun to the average 7th grader, but jumping a dirtbike 20 feet in the air without any form of ramp is just plain implausible and impossible (and don't forget, this sequence was probably the most well-done of all the action sequences in this film).  There was very little sense of time or reality.  The tech nerd that Vin works with in this film manages to do the work of 30 people by himself and in half the time (for example, fully customizing a GTO and packing it full of weapons in a matter of hours), and the gadgets he creates, like the binoculars that see through walls, are so far fetched that a 7 year old would consider them corny.  There are more things wrong with this movie than there are right things.  The script (if there even was a script) was was cliche and full of terrible one liners.  The script managed to be both unoriginal and witless at the same time. It even stole one line directly from a Bond movie! Kudos to writer Rich Wilkes on this one. Terrible Acting, Terrible Writing, and Terrible Stunt/Fight Choreography make for a TERRIBLE MOVIE. "},{"Title":"The best movie of all time...if you're 12 years old!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is like that popular girl that everybody wanted to date in high school. Y'know the one, the hot homecoming queen that is so popular you figure she's got to be great and you dream about going out with her.   Problem is, when you finally do...you wonder what the big deal was because she's got no personality and is as boring as an insurance sales convention!!  And not as pretty as you thought she was, either!This movie is all marketing and technique and loud annoying German techno-metal, but there's nothing cool about it!  How can that be when you're talking about a movie about an extreme athlete who becomes a secret agent?  I have no idea how, but they've made it lame. You get the feeling that the movie was spawned during a meeting of studio execs when some genius had the idea of a guy outrunning an avalanche with a snowboard.  They just needed a way to fit it in a movie...the result is an remarkably boring and overwrought piece of dreck, and also one of the five most fake movies of all time!  A heat-seeking missle homing in on a cigarette?  C'mon now, this is utterly absurd!  Maybe if they had tried to make the movie a little more fun, a little more tongue-in-cheek, it might've been okay.  But it takes itself way more seriously than it ought to...and the result is derivative and laughable.  It's on par with the worst of the James Bond movies...which is pretty bad (ever see License to Kill?)!  Everyone associated with this should've known better!  5/10. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of the summer.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Austin Powers 3, eat your heart out.  This movie delivers the laughs, albeit unintentionally, like no other movie has this summer.It's been a long time since I've seen a movie so bad take itself so seriously.  This movie is not fun.  It's the high-budget, ridiculous-stunt-packed, everything-explodes action movie equivalent of Plan 9 From Outer Space.How director, writers, and actors can even attach their names to a product so horrible across the board is mind-boggling.  It looks like someone ate John Woo's entire catalog and then threw up.But if you love movies from which expect no entertainment other than to laugh at its complete failure, this is your movie for 2002.  And of course, make sure to surround yourself with those people who yell PULL THE PARACHUTE!  PULL IT STUPID!  COME ON! and misquote a bad line from the trailer every five minutes because they're expecting that scene to come up. It's kind of like Mystery Science Theatre XXX. "},{"Title":"X-Games, The Movie","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There were stunts in this movie so outrageously unbelievable and silly, that I could not laugh hard enough to express my feelings, so I had to bounce in my chair and pull my hair as well...  But that's what I went for.  Adrenaline-rush action, fun and over-the-top stunts, and cheesy plot/dialogue - that's what the previews promised, and I feel that's what I got.  It doesn't pretend to be what it's not - it's a bunch of guys jumping motorcycles, snowboarding, speeding cars, jumping out of airplanes, parasailing...  with a plot thrown in to run all the stunts together, and Diesel's gravelly voice throwing in corny one-liners.If you like the X-Games and seeing things blow up, give it a try.  I anticipate (with pleasure) a video game along the lines of Stuntman based on this movie.And for the record, I'm female, mid-30's, responsible, educated, etc. - so it's not just for teenaged boys. "},{"Title":"vin diesel is the only positive thing for this movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  see this movie in the theater and never again.  its good in the theater cuz its loud and action-packed, and the theater is where you should see movies like that.  however, xxx is not a good movie and outside the theater (or a good home theater) its not worth the watch.  the action scenes are absurd much of the time and the acting is mediocre at best.  it makes me mad when movies expect you to believe too much, and this one is the most extreme movie of that type.  however, vin puts in a good performance and its funny at parts, so its worth a one-time viewing.  i give it a 3 - id rather watch any bond anyday over this flick. "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel's fuel is UNLEADED!!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel was good in this flick but that's about all it had going for it.  I was not impressed with the excessive use of tough guy talk.  For instance, Vin Diesel is covered by snow in an avalanche.  I love powder is the first thing Vin Diesel says, uggg.  Also, as usual, the Russians are the bad guys.  At one point one of the Russians says about Vin Diesel Catch him fast!  Kill him slow!.  If that isn't the corniest line!!  Or how about when Vin Diesel says Welcome to the Zander zone!  or when Agent Gibbons played by Samuel L. Jackson says Congrats XXX, you passed the test...the GIBBONS test  These are some of the MANY hokey lines that are featured in this gradeschool level action flick.  Don't get me wrong, I was entertained.  The avalanche scene was good.  The 007 similarities were embarassing right down to SPOILER the final scene where Vin Diesel is being intimate with the leading lady...all during which Samuel L. Jackson is trying to talk to him via the videophone!  Hello!  Am I the only person who was annoyed by this 007 rip off of Q trying to talk to James Bond at the end of each BOND flick?END SPOILER Also the NERD who is kind of the Q gadget man for 007, oops, I mean Vin Diesel.  Hahaha. The opening scene was interesting where the German Metal band, Rammstein is playing industrial metal on the bad guys club.  They even played, after that scene, the JASON X song Let the Bodies hit the Floor.  Yet, another rip off.  Or what about that LAME love scene where Vin Diesel kisses the lead female and she says Did you like that?  Because that will never happen again.  Oh boy!!  Somebody get me a tear wiper!  The chemistry between Vin Diesel and Jackson seemed strange.  The makeup job on Jackson's face was lame but it gave Vin Diesel many chances to make fun of him.  Kiss my ass scarface is one insult.  Or how about well look who it is, Frankenstein!  Oh way to go Vin Diesel!!!  You tell him!!!  Bottom line is this TRIPPLE X gets a TRIPPLE F MINUS!   TRIPPLE X...TRIPPLE YOUR VIEWING FRUSTRATION!  TRIPPLE X is TRIPPLE TERRIBLE!!   "},{"Title":"Another cheesy action movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It amazes me that scripts like this get the green light. This movie was just pure cheesy action. It made me curious how Vin Diesel is riding around on a motorcycle in the middle of a cocaine plantation going off of invisible jumps while shooting down thugs in mid air and being chased by helicopters that are 20 feet behind him shooting machine guns at him but they still manage to miss while he jumps (on his motorcycle) through a 30 foot barbed wire fence without a scratch. And that was just the beginning of the movie. ) "}{"Title":"LoVE Me Some Blacktalion but won't recommend XXX","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, action junky that I am, I anxiously awaited XXX.  Vin is HOT as usual.  There were enuf gadgets, guns and leather for my taste.BUT THE PLOT IS WEAK!!!  Production costs must have run up faster than they anticipated; that's why the biological bomb was comical! The folks writing the checks realize that Vin can bring in about $20-30 million above the cost of making one of his films. "},{"Title":"Triple XXX is not a good movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had modest expectations going into Triple X, all the early reviews were positive saying this is the new Bond franchise for the 21st century.  Well after seeing this movie I have to say I'll take Bond any day over Vin Deisel's spy character.  The movie is just not cool, I never got into it no matter what sorta stunts they threw in there.  It was just 5 action set pieces with nothing interesting connecting any of them.  The dialouge Vin had to spout was horrendous, leave the one liners to Bond and hell even Arnolds' (True Lies character).  This movie tries to be a serious but borders on the edge of parody ala True Lies.  I have to compare it to True Lies because essentially their the same kinda movies, both are Bond ripoffs but what makes True Lies better is plot, character development, you actually care bout the characters and are into it.  This movie starts of without a bang and then they try to overwhelm you with effects and big explosions. This movie is better off as a $1 movie or on a blockbuster night "},{"Title":"I'll never get those two hours back!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was incredibly bad. I like bad action movies, The Punisher, but I could not stand this, even the clever action movie one-liners were bad, worse than Knock Knock! Stick Around! If I didn't have friends who work at the theater to let me in free, I would have demanded my money be refunded. In fact, I can't waste anymore of my time on it by typing how bad it was, please don't go see it.  "},{"Title":"Lots of action...but no taste","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm sad vin lowered himself to doing a movie of this quality.  I dont think the producers thought this thing through much past the hype and special effect aspect.  The action is almost non-stop, which can be good, however it was overdone in this case.  I think that just about everything in the movie was combustible.  They could have tossed a bicycle off a cliff and it would've burst into flames.  The dialogue (or lack there of) was also pretty bad....lots of poor cliches...very bad script.  The entire movie was really a cliche.  You have probably already seen near replicas of this movie in the past.  It follows the typical good guy has to stop the villain who wants to take over the world scenario.  It has no surprises...you can figure out just about everything that will happen ahead of time.  Overall, i was thoroughly disappointed. It really didnt have anything to offer except some hype.  If all you want to see is stuff blowing up or if you are a junior high girl and want to see vin with his shirt off, then go see it.  If you actually care about having a halfway decent plot behind the action and some grip on reality, dont. "},{"Title":"Not bad... Not bad at all..","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been wanting to see this movie ever since I got a glimpse of the trailer. Vin Diesel is a pretty good actor. The movies he does aren't exactly four stars or anything but they're fun. In this one he plays a bad guy that gets suckered into helping the U.S. govt. to stop a renegade band of Soviet Anarchists hell bent on destroying the world. Lots of cool stunts, some of which a lil hard to believe. Stuff gets blown up & some gun fighting too. Overall it's a pretty fun movie. Almost like a 007 for the younger generation but definatly not bad at all..  "},{"Title":"A new, improved, James Bond?","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just finished watching the film and it certainly kept me interested from the beginning to the end.  James Bond has needed a major face lift for a while, and switching the main character from a Martini-drinking debonair sophisticated Brit to a tattooed hunk was a very good start.  The stunts, for the most part, stretched reality to the point of disbelief, kind of like stretching a chiclet to the moon.  Let's face it - parachuting onto a mountain, setting off an avalanche, and out-chasing the avalanche and a half dozen armed men on snowmobiles, all while only on a snowboard is a real trick.  But just for fun appeal, I definitely give this film my thumbs-up.  "},{"Title":"Some problems","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie can be fast and fun, but I had to keep asking the 11 year olds I was with to clarify the plot. Acting's not bad, but the story and actions  are very reminiscent of 9/11 and plays off of that tragedy. In addition, one scene in the movie is very suggestive of the Nazi's gas chambers. The movie had a lot of sadism in it. "},{"Title":"uhhhhhh........... Submarine?","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I only got one problem with XXX, besides the script, bad acting, and bad directing...(spoiler alert)What is up with the submarine?Other than that it is almost a tolerable action movie. I did like the stunts though. Maybe knockaround guys will be better. "},{"Title":"XXX is good, but James Bond has nothing to worry about","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've liked Vin Diesel's previous movies. The Fast and the Furious was good, and so was Saving Private Ryan, though the latter was probably better. Anyway, I went into XXX expecting a good action movie, and for the most part, I got what I expected. Vin Diesel's performance is nothing special, but he's bearable. Samuel L. Jackson delivers a solid performance, as usual The one liners aren't very good, and neither is the plot. To not give a lot away, Xander Cage (Diesel) is an extreme sports star who is forced by the government to become a spy and infiltrate a Russian (or was it Czech? I'm not sure) group of high tech terrorists called Anarchy 99. Anyway, if you're looking for a good action movie with lots of explosions and gunshots, XXX delivers. However, if you want plot, suspense, or even great acting, I suggest you go somewhere else.6.5/10  "},{"Title":"A shelved video game","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before going to see this film discharge any sense of logic. The action scenes have some very cool stunt work yet most were so far-fetched it makes you winch. It was an attempt at creating a James Bondish human video game yet I think watching 'SlamBall' would prove to be more of a successful venture. Vin Diesel has a brighter future in film once he abandons the search for a quick quip and learns to put some emotion in the performances. I had a feeling I should have requested a ticket to see 'signs' but my 12 and 14 year old sons asked enthusiastically for this movie instead - they did enjoy the film. I guess they may have been the intended audience. "}{"Title":"typical summer movie","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Loud, mindless, but fun action movie from director Rob Cohen. Diesel stars as an extreme sports athlete who never plays by the rules, until he's recruited by the NSA to infiltrate a deadly Russian crime ring with an evil agenda that could mean trouble for all those involved. Overlong, often silly, high-testosterone James Bond-wannabe is just an excuse to throw out as many in-your-face action scenes and stunts as possible, but if you're looking for a rush then it works just fine for what it is. A chance for Diesel to flex his muscles in the action genre as his 'character' is nothing more than your typical rebellious outlaw, but that's pretty much what you'd expect in this energetic no-brainer. **½ "},{"Title":"At last a new action star that is not a wimp. Hurrah for Vin Diesel!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  In the endless search for a believable action star Hollywood has done just about everything and everyone. To date most have been warmed over copies with zilch in originality and less than zilch in new excitement.Well they have one now with a vengeance in XXX.WOW! Vin Diesel as Xander Cage, punk/grunge rock, super stunt man, and general malcontent, is awesome!I went to this film determined to hate it because the trailers were so lame.  But take it from me folks, this is a full out damn the torpedoes action hero film with a real tough guy in the title role.Mix in a wonderful counter point of Samuel L. Jackson as NSA agent Gibson and you have a new age Q to a Bond-like hero that looks like a Pro Wrestler that really clicks.Sprinkle in a new face, Asia Argento, as Yelena, who has a bit of a Uma Thurman look and you have explosive chemistry to go with action scenes of magnitudes that will make Bond fans hide their heads in shame. Bond had some fat man throwing a hat at him...ho--hum...yawn.  You won't yawn in this one.  Try snow boarding a full blown avalanche and it isn't even the really big scene.So don't go see this thinking it is Citizen Kane it isn't.  And Diesel won't win any drama awards.  But he has power and the story rocks and...well go see it.  It's fun! "},{"Title":"Save Your Money","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  By nature action flicks are not supposed to be cerebral think pieces aimed at making us take a contemplative look at ourselves and the world, nor are they supposed to be devoid of character, class, and most importantly...fun. This is the quandry that XXX lies in.  This movie had all the promise of something decent, but falls brilliantly flat.  The focus is less on plot, or developing the character of Extreme sports junkie Xander Cage (Vin Diesel), and more on figuring how to get from one senseless action sequence to another.  The Die Hard and Rambo movies each had character that we like, and dare I say it cared about, but here the main character remains largely unsympathetic, and wholly unlikeable.  I sat there for those 124 minutes waiting for the movie to do something besides basically test the blaring sound system of the theatre.  The only bright spot (if there can be one) was Asia Argento as Yelena the requistite love interest of the movie. Xander Cage is a cult hero in the minds of Xtreme Sports fanatics, and just the man our government needs to help stop a group of Russian anarchists (who have dubbed themselves, unoriginally enough Anarchy 99),from annihilating the world.  Since there are rumored sequels planned, it becomes obvious that the ending has to come out a certain way.  Vin Diesel comes across flat, and if it weren't for his nicely chiseled body I might've walked out of the movie.  Not to go off on some kind of rant, but I know Diesel is better than this pointless drab.  I was intrigued by his short film Multi Facial, applauded his flawed hero in Pitch Black, and loved his strength and emotion in The Fast and the Furious, so to say i was let down by XXX would be a gross understatement.  I can only imagine that at some point Mr. Diesel has made a pact with Satan, and that this is his comeuppence.  So now he is deemd the next Stallone or Schwarzenegger, instead of the serious actor that I know he could be, that he claims he wants to be.  Once you are fitted with the action stamp, the chances of people seeing you as otherwise start to fade.  Vin should've focused more on his craft, and less on his $10 million paycheck.  All of the explosions and the avalanches have caused him to lose sight of his actual talent. I could encourage you to purchase this when it comes out on DVD, but that may even be a stretch, so I say rent it before you do anything hasty like filling the pockets of people who really haven't done anything to earn these ridiculous amounts of money.   "},{"Title":"Not what it was made out to be","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was more hype than movie.  It was fun and decent to watch, but nothing I couldn't have waited for on HBO. Good acting, although sometimes you sit and wonder what just happened or how. Plot holes were around here and there, and the story didnt really develop much. Too much focus on special effects and tricks. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movie Experiences I've Ever Had","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When i saw this movie in the theater it was one of the best times i've ever had watching a movie.  This was because everyone was laughing through out the whole movie (and XXX is not a comedy).  In fact, the most laughter occured during the more serious parts of the film in part due to Rob Cohen's terrible direction.  If there was one movie that was totally manufactured to appeal to the most stupid teenage boy it was XXX.  I cannot understand how this movie was allowed to be shown in theaters.  Did the studios even test screen this movie?  If they did, did they realize that the audience was laughing at the movie and not with it.  Bottom line  This is the worst movie I have ever seen.  Seriously.  But if you want the fun experience of going to a movie where the person sitting next to you is laughing his head off while Vin Diesel is blowing the bad guys away then go see this movie. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Basicly...WOW... not only was Vin very hot and completely suited to play X, but he did a spectacular job.The stunts in this film top all others including Vin's prior film F&F(Fast and the Furious)I can't help but keep referring to the awsome stunts... they were great!!!I guess the main reason i love this film is because ... wel... i guess you could say it is a twisted version of James Bond seen from the adrenilin lovers eye veiw... so all in all WOW... go see it and youll know what i mean.. D "},{"Title":"This movie suXXX","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was terrible.There was one good scene in it (the avalanche scene).This movie reminded me of Legends of the Fall, but instead of see Brad ride a horse and see Brad cry it was see Vin parachute/snowboard/ride a motorcycle and see Vin kiss like a monkey.I like Vin Diesel in any other movie he's been in (Boiler Room), but he was awful in this. It's hard to blame him though because the lines were so bad it was impossible to make a good delivery of them (like the script of Attack of the Clones). There were a lot of one-liners and none of them was funny (Welcome to the danger zone!).It was a really long, lame Mountain Dew commercial.Don't pay to see this movie. Just catch the second half after seeing a decent movie. "},{"Title":"Worse Than Bad...","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was one of the most God-Awful films ever put on the big screen.  I was anticipating this movie, but when I saw it today, I could only get through the first 30 minutes of it.  Samuel L. Jackson just mails this performance in and Vin Diesl was horrendous.  The action scenes that took up that first 30 minutes that I mentioned above were so over the top and outlandish, I felt like I was watching a cartoon or something.  To make a long story short...in the immortal words of another Samuel L. Jackson character...This is some repugnant $#!7! "},{"Title":"This Sucks!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was all set for a Modern day Bond type movie,but i should of known better. Lame script,seen it all before stunts. And the Villain gets all the best lines. Thank goodness Die Another Day will be out soon. A Real Action hero. Bond has had many Competitors over the years,and he saw off the Matt Helms and Flint. This is pathetic,Diesel needs better movies than this,if he is to become a Superstar. Id sooner watch Licence to kill any day. "},{"Title":"wow!!!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had been looking forward to this movie, if for no other reason than to see Vin Disel in action, but I also really enjoyed the story.  It was non-stop action with a good amount of humor.  This movie has been compared to a James Bond movie for the X-Generation, and it lived up to that, and more.  He was well matched to this script, and carried off the acting well.  I would recommend seeing this movie. "}{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX would be much more entertaining if it was a porno as its title seems to be imply. But instead it is an outrageously unrealistic action movie starring Vin Diesel, who in the tradition of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone sucks at acting. The script for this movie sucks too. The jokes aren't funny and the dialogue is cheasy. The whole movie is just basically one spectacularly over the top action scene after another. Don't waste your money on this movie. bye. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie if you can live with the music","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't think this movie would be all that good after seeing the Fast and the Furious, but it was entertaining! Typical James Bond type of script that has been tattooed for the 21st century. If you can get by the obnoxious hard metal music you'll have a good time. Oh, don't worry Vin saves the world ) "},{"Title":"This Triple SUCKED!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I gotta hand it to Vin Diesel. Anyone who can get $20 million for making a picture this awful deserves a t-shirt that says genius on it. I just hope he uses the money to build an inescapable jail cell around Rob Cohen so the guy will NEVER be able to direct another film again in his life!!! If you wanna lose more than a few IQ points, this is the picture for you. I am once again awestruck by Hollywood's ability to crank out this tripe. Do yourself a favor and bring a barf bag with you to the theater, cause you're gonna TRIPLE PUKE in it!!! "},{"Title":"Dom was cooler...","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to go see this expecting Guns and Explosions Part VII, and that's exactly what I got.  Amazing (impossible) stunts, lots of tatoos, big ol' guns, and... cars! It got old after a while though.  It was much too far fetched for my taste. VD's acting is a bit worse than previous roles, but he does a decent job of being a bad-ace.He lives his life a quarter-kilo at a time... "},{"Title":"Absolute James Bond ripoff!!!!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is perhaps the biggest James Bond ripoff I have ever seen. From the line The things I do for my country. to the American flag parachute is a direct ripoff of 007. I'll admit the movie has some great action sequences, but I've seen nearly all of them done before in a James Bond film. The biggest ripoff has to be the car. 007's car is what made him unique and fun to watch. When someone ripsoff Bond's car, I consider it a direct insult.As for the movie itself; it had a nice concrete storyline with action sequences. If you're into watching a lot of stunts being preformed on screen, the I suggest you see this movie. One thing that bothered me in the movie was Vin's fur coat. That thing looked god awful. Bad choice on the costume design's part. My final verdict is; if you like gripping edge of your seat action, then go see this movie. If you don't (which I strongly recommend) then you really aren't missing anything special.  "},{"Title":"Avoid at all Cost","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  From the opening sequence I thought to myself, Wow, this movie has potential, but from there reality started to break in.  *Everything* in this movie explodes and it challenged my better knowing... i didn't think snowmobiles could explode but don't worry, *Everything* explodes in this movie.  Another annoyance i felt was with the 'athlete' portion of vin's charecter.  I didn't think that it would be good to, while fleeing in gunfire, steal silver tray from a resturaunt and do a rail grind, ollie, and reverse to another rail to help him get away.  Another stupid stung was (one of the times when vin got a dirt bike) he did a 'superman' grab to get in better position to shoot someone... seems unnecessary if you ask me.  But there was one nice touch, most of the movie was in untranslated russian (to avoid unnecessary plot), although they were nice enough to translate a few cheesy one liners... one in particular comes to mind catch him fast, kill him slowOverall, avoid this movie at all costs.  If someone you know rents it in a few months when it comes out on VHS, and DVD with all those special features i'm sure there will be... maybe watch it then but expect to make fun of it.one last warning, there will be people saying this movie is great because vin diesel is so cool, and he does such awsome stunts and there are explosions woah cool!!!  but those people are mindless idiots and wouldn't know a good movie if it hit them in the face. "},{"Title":"Xtreme, Xciting, but Xcruciating","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yes, our biceped bad boy Vin Diesel gets to drive fast cars as an X-treme sports hero making James Bond look like he should look for a retirement home.  Yes, it's a fun action movie that makes the 2 hours fly by, like Diesel's airborne motorcycles.  But it makes Fast and Furious look classy by comparison.  The movie makers added too much testosterone in their formula here.  The pumped heavy metal music in every scene sounds the same.  The editing is terrible - you'll go, OK, how did that get there, how is the motorcycle flying, when will the car hit the ground, etc.   The worse part is despite all of Vin Diesel's action, he doesn't do any hand-to-hand fighting which should be required in the action hero book.  (SPOILER ALERT) And it's just unheroic to have the hero just shoot the main villain IN THE BACK when he's fleeing a half mile away!!!!   "},{"Title":"Mindblowing... is recommended before watching.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After MIB2 I thought it couldn't get any worse, but I was wrong. This is what Hollywood want us to believe.If you can parashute out of a falling car, you can do anything.Cars do explode before impact (Hollywood cars usually explode after).Cheesy jokes that's no fun is acceptable.Computer animation attract audiences.The plotholes in this one are so big you can run a few cars through them (I think they actually do that to). The editing is so horrible that in the action sequences you get lost, theres no sense of orientation and in other suspense scenes it goes back and forward in time between the clips. There's more but that would spoil it for the people who doesn't care what I write and will go and see it anyway.The thing that kept it from getting a one was the first 20seconds, they should have filmed a Rammstein consert instead. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It was bad. It was predictable, cheesey, corny, and stupid. The action was amazing but had no use for the movie. Things he does are so impossible they made the movie so unrealistic that its not worth seeing. Nothing else is needed to be said. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX, we must remember, is an action movie.  And action movies, as we all know, are not the providers of the most developed plots or characters. XXX lacks in both its plot is simple and unoriginal (evil menace tries to destroy the world, tough hero is sent to stop him), and its characters are shallow and stereotypical.HoweverThe plot is decent enough and the characters aren't so annoying that we cannot afford to not praise XXX for the incredible unending amounts of appealing action scenes that are packed into this film's duration.  Scene after scene, minute after minute, we watch Vin Diesel in the most extreme events to hit the screen in a while, and I enjoyed every minute of it.I am not one who usually likes a movie just because of its big action sequences or its special effects.  I hated the Matrix.  That should say enough.  But XXX was somehow different.  It was enjoyable.  It never lost my attention.  I never became bored.I was scared before I saw this film.  Vin Diesel was great in the role that made him famous, Private Caparzo in Saving Private Ryan.  He proved that he knows how to and is willing to act for an audience.  But recently the Fast and the Furious was released, and it seemed to focus more on his build than his acting capabilities.  The advertisements for XXX made me think that the same thing was going to happen.  It did to an extent, but to a very small extent.  Diesel is not the best actor in the world by far, but he is good. XXX did not let me down, even though I thought it would.  There is something real about his performances, something natural.  As if he's just being himself but playing another character at the same time.  He manages to do that in XXX, and it is wonderful.I went into the theater expecting something decent, but I did not think I would like it as much as I did.  Is this movie cliched?  Of course.  Is it the product of the greed of Hollywood?  Yes, there are few movies now that aren't.  But I was impressed with it.  I liked it.  I had fun.  And that's what counts.9/10Lost a point for Samuel L. Jackson, who is one of my favorite actors but just seemed awkward in this film. I guess it's just that I'm used to seeing him in more serious roles, and he seemed too happy and different in this movie.  Still a superb actor... he just seemed a little weird. "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm sorry to say this but i actualy payed to see this movie. the movie is based on a soviet terrorist group. Vin Diesel, who plays a thrill seeking criminal is forced to cooperate with a NSA agent in order to avoid a prison sentenceThroughout the movie Vin Diesel preforms seemingly imposible stunts the most obvious of with is the very advertised scene where he manages to out run a avalanch and finding conveniontly placed objects off of which he can jump off. aside from the technical errors Vin Diesel himself is horrible actor who seems to say nothing but cliches and one liners throughout the whole more. he then manages to take on an entire underground army almost by himself which may go to far even for the great James Bond. this movie was brought up with seemingly endless amounts of action sequences which were for the most part entertaining.move over James Bond (as one critic raves) is hardly the words to describe it. So for a loose plot, bad acting and pointless action this would be the movie to see. if substance and a PLOT i would suggest you stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"*Yawn*","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  *SLIGHT spoilers ahead, probably nothing you didn't see in the trailers*I remember the first time I saw the trailer for XXX, I turned to the friend I was seeing whatever film the trailer was in front of (how's THAT for weird syntax?) that I wouldn't expect a plot out of that movie, but the stunts looked cool.As the release date drew closer, and the ultra-cool Vin Diesel (who I still think is the best bad-ass since Samuel L. Jackson) made the press circuit, I was starting to warm to the idea more and more, so when the aforementioned friend decided he wanted to get a crew together to watch XXX tonight, I was in.So, I went in not expecting a plot and, boy, was I not disappointed. However, the sheer asininity (is that a word?) of the story was almost like an emotional vacuum, sucking away my ability to stare slack-jawed at the action like Cletus from The Simpsons.The only (and I mean ONLY) redeeming quality of this film was the stunt work.  The opening sequence, the motorcycle-helicopter chase, and the gunfight after gunfight after gunfight were all pretty cool, but without a semblance of plot to hang these on, they just seemed like Rob Cohen's excuses to get people to ooh and aah.They have been calling XXX this generation's James Bond.  If that's the case, I hope my generation reconsiders.  XXX had good stunt work, but the best spy movie of the summer is still The Bourne Identity.*OK, here comes a pretty big spoiler.  Stop reading if you don't want to know how it ends (like you don't see it coming anyway)**Be absolutely sure you don't want to know how it ends**I'm about to tell you**Stop reading NOW if you want to be surprised**DO NOT READ BEYOND HERE IF YOU DON'T WANT SPOILERS**OK, I warned you*One question  Why did Samuel L. Jackson have so much faith in XXX's ability to defuse Silent Night?  We were given no reason to believe that he could handle something like that.  Here's how it would have made more sense...XXX harpoons himself onto Ahab.  SLJ turns to the Czech police.SAM JACKSON  Call off the jets!He watches XXX approach, that dumbfounded look on his face.  He turns back to the Czech police.SAM JACKSON  Never mind!  Blow the damn thing up!And they do.  The end.Unfortunately, the wonderful master-of-physics screenwriter helps XXX figure out that putting a missile in backwards makes it blow up!  Is that true?!? I don't see how it could be, unless the firing mechanism is in the back of the missile itself, and not in the sub.ALSO, what the heck did Yorgi have on that boat that caused it to blow up like an A-bomb upon impact with that cliff?And did the cinematographer get a new tripod for Christmas or something? That had more static shots than any action film I've ever seen.  The movie I made with my friends this year had more dynamic camera work, and it was all done on a DV cam handheld by college students.  We didn't have a $100,000,000+ budget to throw around, and I think ours beat this movie for cinematic skill.And the acting was better.But, I'm getting off-topic...Anyway, DON'T see XXX unless you really, REALLY don't care about plot, shot sequencing, acting, or...well...a film.  Go see The Bourne Identity. Or, if you have to see a sophomoric spy film, see Austin Powers 3.  At least AP3 was intentionally funny.  And Dr. Evil was an infinitely better villain than Yorgi.And there's talk of making this a franchise.  Please, Rob Cohen.  Don't do it.  Vin Diesel's cool, but this movie was not.  Vin, get yourself a gig as Juggernaut in X-Men 3 or something.  Do NOT make the sequels.  And Mr. Cohen?  Try a romantic comedy.  Or, if you want to make this generation's James Bond, see if you can't get yourself a job on one of the future Bond projects.  Once Pierce Brosnan hangs up the vodka martinis, get the guy that played The Professor in Bourne Identity (whose name escapes me right now. I know I'll kick myself later when I remember it) to play Bond, and revolutionize the genre from the inside rather than trying to assert yourself in a saturated genre.I gave this movie 3 out of 10 stars, because when it comes out on DVD, if you just skip between the action sequences, you'll have a damn good time watching it.  Maybe even watching the whole thing with the MUTE button on would be better.  Better yet, get some friends together, turn the volume low, and do a Mystery Science Theater 3000 knock-off.Just DON'T spend $7 on XXX.  Please. "},{"Title":"Good? Bad? Hard to tell.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I cannot say I am completely unbiased, as I am a Vin Deisel fan, I can say with some objectivity that XXX was either pretty good or pretty bad.Let me explain. This movie is stereotypical, yes. It is highly tuned for the 'X-treme' sports fan or mindless action fanatic. It is also an often proclaimed 'Bond Movie for the 00s'.I'll get this out of the way THIS MOVIE WILL NOT STIMULATE YOUR MIND. So many people complain because a movie is dumb or unoriginal. The point is, Vin Deisel does an amazing job playing a typical action hero. If all you watch is classy movies or art films, you'll hate it.Now, if you like mind-numbing action, insane stunts and extreme sports, you'll fall in love. This movie far surpasses the directors earlier attempt with that piece of tripe 'Fast and the Furious'. This has enough substance to have a decent story which gives purpose to the action and violence.And there is something about punishing an overly-conservative senator that really makes me smile... "},{"Title":"XXX is for exxxcrement","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow, the only thing worse than the acting is the plot and dialogue. I know I can find opposition in this position from nearly every preteen male in America. But, a good looking girl and a few good composites don't make a movie. Bank the $8.50, stay home and see something more socially redeeming on TV like, Buffy the vampire slayer! "},{"Title":"all action and a decent plot!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just got had the opportunity of watching XXX, at an advanced screening. I was not expecting much since Rob Cohen's past film Fast and the Furious really was a big let down.  Again I expected all action but no plot, but I was surprised to see that Rob Cohen wised up and had some kind of a plot this time.  Vin Diesel did a good job as always playing a hardcore role while filling the shoes of a spy.  This movie has some of the best action sequences that I have seen all summer.  Yet it is not an academy award film, but it sure is an entertaining movie to go watch.  The movie is obviously carried by the action sequences, and some of Vin Diesel's witty humor.  I would suggest that everyone check this movie out...it is a good one!!! "},{"Title":"Is it possible for a movie to both suck AND blow?","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX answers this question with a resounding YES.There's been a spate of secret agent movies lately. I am continually befuddled by the fact that the CIA and NSA and other covert government agencies are inspiring so many movies these days. All they really do is encourage coups against democratically elected governments and prop up dictators in their place.But ah yes, back to XXX. I have to admit that this is film is marketed very well. All those X-treme dudes out there with their snowboards and luges will flock to this film. I am surprised that the film isn't being cross-promoted with Mountain Dew. Ah, the endorsement is coming.Then there is the films misleading title which might have some people thinking this is an adult film.And poor old Sam L. Jackson. After Attack of the Clones maybe he just really needed a job. It's a shame that such a credible actor is reduced to playing bad cop to Vin Diesel's good cop. Or is it snob to Diesel's slob? Or maybe it's Turner to his Hooch? Ah buddy movies are so 1980's.Some of the one-liners are amusing.Wait for the DVD to come out packed with all the extras.  "},{"Title":"This movie is an insult to the film reel it was contained in.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK, let me begin by saying that if you had any faith in the ability of Hollywood to generate a quality product, abandon hope all ye who enter the theater. XXX or Triple X Starring Vin Diesel and Samuel L. Jackson is the enchanting tale of X-TREME sports star Xander, the stereotypical bad boy complete with menacing scar, abominable catch phrases and KUNG FU GRIP! By some inane twist of fate, Xander ends up being drugged and enlisted in the services of Samuel L. Jackson, to be a secret agent. Apparently in this fantasy setting, being a secret agent means the exact opposite. The last time I checked, a spy did not jump a dirtbike over an exploding fence while tending to his equally explosive libido with another wannabe bond girl.As far as plot concerns, the living product endorsement (Diesel) is sent on practice missions before taking on the assignment to stop terrorist group Anarchy 99. The group of well dressed ravers apparently want to unleash a virus ominously titled Silent Night, and it is up to our very own tattooed love boy to overcome the forces of evil with more explosions and even cheesier one liners. As you can see the plot and script are not overly hindered by logic. All in all, if you have experienced a full frontal lobotomy, take numerous behavior altering drugs, or have the attention span of the common housefly, this film is for you. However if you are looking for oddities like plot, dialogue and character development, then you will find more of this substance in Juwana Mann or The Substitute III. Overall, this film is not a cinematic cornerstone, rather, it is a crack in the foundation.  "},{"Title":"A somewhat dumb movie with loud special effects and explosions everywhere, OR... Thats what they WANT you to think!!!","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, I am a BIG movie fan, now I'm not going to reveal anything about the plot, but I will have to say this is a work of a genius.Before you go all crazy on me, let me explain. Vin Deisel is a decent actor, and anyone can tell you that he sucks at acting, but compare him to Arnold Swartzenneger, who in all his films, have punchlines, and either does a stupid smile or has a stone face.Second, Anarkey99 is actually a pretty realistic attempt to show what Exessive Anarkism stands for, with a badass villain.Third, It breaks the bond clichés WHILE having a bond plot, which actually works! fourth, the stunts are all pretty much real.This film is one of my favorites, its not Shakespeare, but its pretty damn good. The people who review it don't have an open enough mind and try to think OUTSIDE the box. "},{"Title":"The BEST Action movie ever!!!","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" O YEAH! Triple X is a excellent movie. Vin Diesel play wonderful! And the story is also great! There is high-tech, non-stop Action!!! Xander Cage do every kind of extreme sport Snowboarding, Motor Cross,... And the stunt with the car, that fall from the bridge is really great! And at the beginning the song is absolutely mega cool! Rammstein with Feuer Frei! It's fantastic! I recommend this film to every Action-Fan! It is James Bond mixed with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Superman! The film is a mixture of James Bond, The Fast and the Furious, and The Rock! It is (in my opinion) the BEST Action-Movie EVER! I love it! XXX - Welcome to the Xander-Zone!!! "},{"Title":"Yet another Neo-Cold War movie","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Typical representative of neo-Cold War cinema. Filmed in Prague, with accent on tourist offer. With obedient Czech's, commanding and superior Americans, and Russians who simply cannot understand where their place is. After they are beaten in Cold War, assh*les think that they can oppose us in the mafia-style stuff. O no, this will not work!It makes man really ask himself, how scriptwriters of this kind of sh*t are not ashamed, to write such cloned deeds. And, because that's major difference between them and me, is superfluous to talk about anything else.Crap in terms of character motivation, storyline, and in (especially) at least believable trail of realism. Same bullshit, as movies Bad Company or Chasing Liberty. Doesn't matter that those movies are different in genre &#150; state policy of US is clearly depicted in both, and meant to infiltrate in sub conscience of young Americans. Same is here. That is sole purpose of XxX. (Aside of earning money).Nor Europe, nor Russians are like this. Sooner people who enjoy this kind of movies realize that, return of the Cold War will not be so soon. That is kind of low-brain ideology, which is tolerable in food industry-poetics as Too fast, too furious is. But, here is absolutely necessary to react in this political-review manner.But, people who like this kind of stuff are always in majority. So, nothing will change. Therefore I'll rate this movie as excellent! "}{"Title":"A very good movie.","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" One of my favorites.I give it a 10 out of 10 for action. 9 out of 10 for plot. 10 out of 10 for characters. and a 10 out of ten for acting. An overall 9.5. The only thing i would say is the love story is loosely tied in but its there, but overall its a good watch. the cast is good a the plot is good the action is great and the acting is great. The story line is well connected together everything seems to fit in well. i enjoyed watching it with my friends and by myself. the story takes a bad ass criminal sends him in to save the world he falls in love and well you can watch the movie to find out the rest. the sequel is not quite as good but also worth the watch. "},{"Title":"I want to know","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I want to know the Bands name who were Singing the song Bang Bang Fire Fire in the club if some of you know then please send it to me. Ishall be really very thankful to you.The Movie XXX is really very good. & Vin Diesel Has performed very well in this movie. a very good idea.All is good Movie and the direction & production.I want to congratulate the whole team of XXX movie who have made a very good movie for us.Muhammad Ali Baigwww.Paffalcons.commmab_1@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"This movie is cool P","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Was on TV other day and i have to say i really enjoyed it. Especially like the dialogue about stealing the car of that senator kinda guy that wants to do away with all violent music and video games. Come on Dick, it's the only education we got. Ahahaha...thoughts of my generation XD. The movie had that awesome looking GTO. They killed a bond-ish guy in beginning to show ya how outdated that character is. That awesome looking revolver. That part where triple x runs right into meet with the head badguy. lol this movie is priceless.Their are those parts where the movie feels scripted and unreal...like the diner scene... how could triple X know about stock brokers? Just doesn't fit with the character P O yea the part about playstation-ing it up and the expression of that Russian police guy + that camcorder rocket launcher sorta kill that scene, but then thriple X kills the big bad boss with a gun...not many bond movie head-badguy's die in such a practical way so that makes up for this.Video games, Weird Russian police girl, Nice Guns, Nice car, Stunts...it's kinda like that game grand-theft-auto + james bond... games bond lol "},{"Title":"A great movie I think it is very well done","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx is a very good movie I don't get what the other people are saying about this movie. I have seen over 10 times and every time it just gets better! This is very good quality movie with some very very funny scenes in it. If you are a fan of Vin Diesel you will love this movie just as much as I did this goes beyond what bond does in his lame ass movies. This brings something new to the spy genre just because someone else makes a movie about spies it is just like James Bond? This movie brings xander cage into the scene as a stunt junkie with a bad ass attitude set in a plot to save the world from destruction. WHAT COULD BE BETTER!!! This is a good movie and I extremely recommend buying this. Good acting, Hot girls, and a awesome plot and writing.10 stars "},{"Title":"xXx my kind of film","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Being a Vin Diesel fan this film was a must see for me. After seeing Pitch Black and The Fast and the Furious I like his calm and cool with a hint of casual violence thrown in for good measure. He has the ability to carry the roles he plays with absolute confidence in himself without appearing over confident or false which would be easy to do in such roles as these. OK the film is full of hi-tec impossible gadgets and more extreme sports stunts than a stunt-man convention. But the gadgets fade into the background as the stunts and very credible acting talents of Vin Diesel and Samuel L Jackson as the good guys supported by Michael Roof as the Tech-Head (the one supplying the previously mentioned gadgets) and Marton Csokas and Asia Argento as the baddies make the easy to follow plot whip along at break-neck speed. Vin Diesel plays the extreme sports expert and adrenaline junkie Xander Cage press-ganged into working for Samuel L Jackson (Agent Augustus Gibbons) to uncover a gang of ex-special forces soldiers of Russian Decent hell bent on plunging the world into anarchy and that is all there is to it really, but throw it to the mixing pot the very well done introduction of Xander base jumping from a car being driven off a bridge and the imaginative tests for the induction into Gibbons agency, add a dash of excellent metal music then bring to the boil with lots of motorcycle stunts snowboarding and a sprinkle of the normal explosions in slow motion and you get an easy to watch entertaining action film. No it is not the world's best action film, no it is not the cleverest plot, no there are no massive twists and yes there are some corny gags and a few predictable outcomes. All in all a beer and nuts film that you can watch over and over because there are always little bits of stunts that you have missed or a corny line that makes you smile. So it doesn't bother me that others don't like this film, it has two of my top ten favourite actors (Diesel and Jackson) and it is amongst my collection of DVDs, so it gets an 8/10 from me just because it does what it says on the tin. "},{"Title":"I learned something interesting & useful from this no-brainer movie!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I love watching action movies, even if some of them are no-brainers! My purpose of going to the movies is very simple firstly, to be entertained within a span of about two hours, & secondly to pick out some interesting & useful ideas.Triple X is one such action movie. The plot is very simple An extreme sports renegade (with no fear but has a bad attitude), Xander Cage (played by Vin Diesel), is recruited by a NSA big shot, Augustus Gibbons (played by Samuel Jackson), to spy on & then foil an attempt by a nasty group of Czech criminals, known as Anarchy 99, & led by a crazy villain, Yorgi (played by Marton Csokas) who had some nutty ideas to change the world using a biological virus, called Silent Night.The many high-octane action sequences (cars, bikes, skis, boats, helicopters,...), all the way from the opening scene & the attendant rampant explosions, plus all the state-of-the-art weaponry, including a super-duper Bond-like vehicle, in the movie are quite fun to watch. The dialog is witty, too. For example, in Prague, while Xander was about to go to bed with a sexy girl, with compliments from Yorgi of course, he remarked The things I'm gonna do for my country. Among others,there is one particular dialog, between Gibbons & Cage, during the first half of the movie which strikes my personal attention.When Gibbons offers Cage a job to work for the US government, with a view to redeem the latter's crimes, Cage turns him down flatly. That's when Gibbons tells him the story about the difference between the eyes of a lion in captivity & the eyes of a lion in the wild.This also reminds me of an insightful dialog between Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers) & Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone) in one of the earlier scenes of the movie, Rocky III. (In contrast to Triple XXX, Rocky III is an intelligent movie.) The movie tells the story of how Creed convinces & retrains a down-&-out Rocky to go back into the ring to fight against Clubber Lang (Mr T) who had earlier gave Rocky a thorough bashing in humiliating defeat. In that particular scene, Creed tells the story about the eye of the tiger. Creed desperately wants Rocky to regain his focus quickly in order to win. Incidentally, this is also the title of the movie's signature tune.These are certainly interesting learning points, especially in terms of understanding life (or survival) skills. I often share these stories with teens who are searching for directions in life.In summing up, I have enjoyed watching Triple XXX & learned something interesting - & useful - along the way. "},{"Title":"Xander's a Xecret Xuper Xpy","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Cold War may be over, but the production of movies about superspies from supersecret, superdooper intelligence agencies seems likely to drop no faster than the national debt. This time the NSA, not content to just listen to our phone calls, infiltrates a band of vicious Russian mobsters peddling advanced weapons. When his agents all turn up dead, spymaster Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson, suitably scarfaced but awfully loud for a secret agency that specializes in wiretaps) carefully recruits an outsider that the mobsters won't be able to recognize. A series of action-packed tests eliminate (yes, eliminate) all candidates except Xander (Diesel), a genial adrenaline junkie & eco-environmentalist Robin Hood who films himself stealing from the rich & arrogant, then drops the loot off a bridge. This may be the first film to try to endow Xtreme Sports with social conscience, but, fortunately, it doesn't try very hard. Under Gibbons's tutelage, Xander learns the delicacy of spycraft and approaches the mobsters with all the deftness we have come to expect from 40 years of James Bond plus 20 years of Stallone & Schwarzenegger zooming around in flashy cars, shooting up neighborhoods, beating up both friends & foes & bedding the all the babes. Xander's stunts, including a long parachuting/snowboarding act, make Bond look like Ironside. Diesel is as commanding & enjoyable a ruffian here as he was in Pitch Black, but without Riddick's grim baggage. He carries an action film with the Gen-X, in-your-face combination of confidence & cynicism that old-timers like Sly & Arnold could never manage and that no current action star has quite mastered. The film at first unfolds with mystery & intrigue worthy of an Eric Ambler story. That may have been accidental because the writers & director soon show as little interest in developing the story as they did in creating a title. xXx throws it all away with clichéd action orgies that go from silly to ludicrous. Xander's special revolver is much like Eddie Valiant's in Who Framed Roger Rabbit. His vintage GTO has so many options that you wonder why he doesn't just say Go-Go Gadget whenever he wants anything. By the end, with the death of millions only seconds away, you'll either be laughing or already dead yourself from brain oxygen deprivation. The film that might have really put a new spin on the old Bond model instead winds up a slightly enjoyable, overlong and forgettable big-budget actioner. xXx might have been campy if the spymaster had been a Peter Lorre type, maybe named Ignatius Spumati or something, rather than Jackson's tired urban tough guy named Augustus Gibbons (you don't even want to KNOW where he went to prep school). Maybe, for Diesel's talents to really shine, he needs an action film that busts the genre as effectively as The Terminator did. With Hollywood still bent on remaking every profitable film & TV show from the last 50 years, Vin may hang it up to run for governor somewhere before he gets a chance. "},{"Title":"I loved it!!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I thought xXx was a great movie and I hope they will make more like it. I love the stunts and fast moving scenes and of course the whole love story really made the movie more interesting. It had great suspense and good lines. I think that Vin Diesel was the perfect man for the role. He always does good in movies where he is the bad/good guy with the tough attitude, and his voice really fits the role and makes it sound even better. Also Samuel L. Jackson did really well in his role as the agent he added suspicion and anticipation to the movie. I just really thought that this movie was really good and I hope that more are coming out like it!!! "},{"Title":"Music Help Needed Really Bad!!!!!","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked the film very much, but i really would like to know the name of the music please, when Xander does the jump stunt from the Porsche in the begging. It goes like this ONE!Do you rock with me? TWO! Do you rock with me?... Something like this..... I Really liked the film in general but I'm something of a fan of those movies.. I also enjoyed the music so id like to add this piece to my collection. If u know the name, please reply here. Tha all for your help. Your comment does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for comments is 10 lines of text. Really know? Dam, so ill just fill the place up with useless info about myself, but wate a minute..... 10 lines! auwesome! "},{"Title":"The name's X.  x X .. er x.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Whatever happened to Vin Diesel? Did someone seal him inside a giant paper bag and he's still trying to act his way out of it? This film is a Bond movie by another name. It's begins badly, but once the location moves to Prague it becomes more interesting. The bad guys are bad and smoke cigarettes, like bad guys should. The femme fatale is a luscious Russian spy. The action scenes are totally over the top, as they always are in a Bond film. The only thing wrong with it is the lead actor with his thick, tattooed arms, shaved head and absence of talent.There are some risible scenes in which he camouflages himself by wearing a shiny head on top of his black outfit at night, and still wears the black outfit when he's sneaking up on the baddies in a snow-covered mountain. There are some almost touching scenes with the sexy Russian spy - but I felt sorry for her having to kiss him. I don't remember Mr. Diesel being this bad in Pitch Black.Initially, I was prepared to give this film no more than 5 out of 10 for effort, but it rose to a 6 when I finally found myself enjoying it. It would have made 7 out of 10 except for the lack of a credible actor as xXxander, the Muscles from, er, LA.Oh - and Samuel L. Jackson? I wonder if he's still hitting his forehead against a brick wall saying Why? Why? Why?. Not your best role, Sam sweetie. "}{"Title":"I was dumber for having watched this film","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The closest thing to film-making in this movie was the repeated flashes to the xXx tattoo. Nice editing and timing in those shots. However, I GOT IT after the first sixteen times! The action scenes were mildly thrilling, and if that's the only reason you go to see a movie, knock yourself out with this one. However if you're looking for plot or character development, you'd really be better off knocking yourself out with a large blunt object than seeing this joke of a flick. It didn't earn the dubious distinction of being the first movie I ever didn't watch until the end---I had enough time invested that I couldn't see not finishing it. However, in retrospect, my time would have been better sent watching paint dry---It would have given me more insight into humanity. "},{"Title":"Moronic writing brings it down a few notches","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Vin Diesel is surprisingly good in this move. The Italian girl is nice as well. The Prague location is a great choice. Some of the action shots are inspired. The direction is bad, but that doesn't sink the film.The problem is with the writing! It's beyond idiotic. Even with the assumption that they are shooting for the low standards of a James Bond movie, the writing is so pathetic that one wonders if they were actively trying for a Golden Raspberry. BTW, the Razzie nomination xXx did get was for Most Flatuent Teen-Targeted Movie, and it lost. Rich Wilkes must be wondering just what kind of merde he needs to produce in order to get props. "},{"Title":"A must-see movie for fans of Marton Csokas","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I am not typically one who watches this type of movie. I went out and rented it because it featured one of my favorite actors, Marton Csokas in a major role. I was definitely not disappointed. This movie is one of Marton's best roles. He plays a perfectly intense Yorgi. And I thought he had an excellent accent for this role. Very cool! Besides being thrilled with Marton's performance, I found the action very entertaining. I loved this movie so much that I went out & bought it as soon as I returned my rental copy. Some of the technical government stuff gets a little boring, but for action & Marton fans it is more than well worth it! I would not recommend it for anyone who is offended by strong language, though as there's quite a bit. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Damn, way to rip a movie apart, I just saw this film and yes it's 3 years later but man oh man, can't you just take a movie for what it is? I think you have just a little bit too much time on your hands there chachi.I personally loved this flick, a little unrealistic at times but hey, that's what movies are for! All I can say about it is it was one of the most fun movies I have seen in a long time. Great action, great concept, and Vin Diesel was perfect for this role. All round good time.Now go have a coke and a smile and relax, you probably hated the Matrix trilogy too I would bet. Another fabulous creation, take things fr what they are, instead of ripping it to shreds over a poo poo attitude.) "},{"Title":"More than an Action movie","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The film captures your attention from the outset, with one of the best openings I have ever seen. The film continues on the action theme with a hint of wit, humour and even a serious side. There is definitely some moral lessons to learn and reflections of real life politics in here too. However the breaks are applied about half way through and the film turns into your usual cool bad guy takes on the even badder bad guys where you can just switch off and enjoy some average action sequences.OVERALL I would say the first half of the film is quite classy and cool. The second half is you average action movie. MY ADVICE would be if you like VIN DIESEL or you like ACTION movies you will really enjoy this movie. Even if you are not one of the mentioned there is something about the movie which you draw you in. "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" What worked Vin Diesel is great no matter what film he is in, even if it is bad. Diesel's performance was simply bad ass. He makes this film and carries the action really well. The rest of the cast namely Martin Czokas and Asia Argento do the best they can with their roles. The action in this film is INTENSE! I had felt a rush like that since JP3,(the brilliantly edited avalanche sequence will make you get on the edge of your seat). And the production design is great you know they spent a lot on this film.What didn't work The villain here is so stereotypical, evil Russian accent, machine that could destroy country and create world war 3, this is all to familiar. And the dialouge is horrible in this film and at times it hard to understand to what Vin Diesel is saying.Overall This film is fun action movie with flaws that can be overlooked.6/10 "},{"Title":"I hated it","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I can safely say that I have never been so bored in my entire life. The film lasted, what? Almost hour and a half? After an hour, the plot line hadn't developed at all, and all I was seeing was the same thing over and over again, and quite frankly, it got pretty boring. So therefore I think that the script was badly written, and the plot line was wrote on the spur of the moment, and not developed on at all.I didn't think much of the cast either - they were all pretty weak actors. I even hated the lead, and the lead character is supposed to hold a film together - but he was one of the worst parts of it.To people who would like to see this - or see the sequel - I wouldn't recommend it, unless you want to be seriously bored for a few hours. "},{"Title":"Welcome  To  The  Vin  Diesel  Zone  !","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The first Vin Diesel movie I saw was 'Pitch Black',and I immediately liked him for his unconventional looks and cool demeanor.I felt that he would make a great action-hero,and this movie confirms just that.Here we see Diesel in a very Bond-like role,but Diesel plays only himself here.No suave, womanizing,tuxedo-clad hero,this is a very modern,brash,uncouth outlaw called upon by the C.I.A. to save the world from the evil designs of a Russian terrorist.The action sequences are extremely well-handled,and so is the soundtrack.Diesel carries himself pretty well throughout the movie,and easily outshines the rest of the cast,barring the brilliant Samuel E.Jackson.Great viewing for any action movie-buff like myself !Definitely deserves a sequel. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I think it was a very good movie, because it is very stylish and very watchable. I enjoyed watching this movie and I liked the main character (Vin Diesel) There should be more movies like this! I saw Alone in the dark, and you could say  thats how the movies shouldn't be, but about xXx you could say  now thats a good action movie. )It had very good screenplay, I think that Rob Cohen is a good director. Maybe the movie did seem unrealistic, but it sure was good fun. Of course the movie wasn't rated very good, because its like just another action movie, but movies like this are made for fun, and people are supposed to enjoy them. Because to tell the truth. Lord of the Rings was pretty boring, I better watch movies like this than Lord of the ring. Very good movie xXx. I don't think that the second part will stand close to this, first because it doesn't have Vin Diesel. and usually sequels are not as good. "},{"Title":"xXx is actually a genetic disease","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" James bond was an invention of the 1950s and 1960s. He was cool because he wore a tuxedo, drank vodka martinis (the cool drink of the period), treats women like objects and had a license to kill.The problem is that cool moves on a bond doesn't. xXx takes the wonderfully successful formula of the bond movies and attempts to put in a new character.Xander Cage is an action sports hero blackmailed into being a super spy. He is cool for the no rules generation. He loves risk for risks sake, but is still alive because he takes none. He dresses outlandishly (are we sure he is based on James Bond, not Austin powers). He is a reluctant hero who is more loyal to human life that his country. He is uses non lethal violence, rather than be an assassin (Bond is a murderer and this has never really sat well with modern audiences).Does it work, the answer is, partly. Too much time is spent on recruiting Xander to the mission and his reason for being and his motivation is generally unconvincing.The whole pretext is unconvincing, so it would have been better if they spent less time on it and got to the action.Yet it is an interesting experiment, good fun, bad acting (especially Vin Diseal who usually is convincing enough in the roles he plays, not enough overacting on the part of the villains, high testosterone action.But they never really understood Bond. You have to realise, Bond is not a spy but an operative. Most Bond movies expose Bond within 10 seconds of him trying to do an spy work so as to concentrate on the action.It could be better, it could be worse, I would like to see some sequels to see what they do with this. "}{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Seldom has an action movie given me the same feeling that xXx did. A mighty yawn is the best description i can give you. A lot of noise for nothing is another good description.Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) is an extreme sports legend who is known for his extreme stunts that he films. Now he is contracted by the US government for an undercover mission in eastern Europe. Somehow they feel that Cage might have a better chance at succeeding where regular agents have failed.The premise of this film is of course ridiculous. But that in itself does not always mean that the movie will be ridiculous. Unfortunately this movie though is just as bad as the premise. Beside Diesels usual wooden acting, Asia Argentos pathetic accent and the general lack of acting (Sam Jackson excluded) is the fact that this movie never raises your pulse. When i see an action movie i want to be thrilled, i want something to make my heart race. I want to be sit with my mouth open in disbelief. And here they, on top of things, mixed extreme sports and action movies. That sounds like a pretty good mix for the action sequences. Still, there is not a single action scene in this movie that gives me that thrill. Rather there is just a whole lot of noise going on, but it never goes anywhere. Loads of foreplay and no climax you might say.So, does this suck? Yes it most certainly does. There is no real reason to watch this at all since there are hardly any redeeming qualities. Might be just to watch the clothing in this movie then. It's not often that you see someone dressed in a fur jacked and tank-top. I rate this 3/10 (clothing included). "},{"Title":"Big action flick with fun set pieces, good entertainment although the ending sags a little","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" You get what you expect with this movie, an action fest filled with one liners and little in the way of character development, but you know what, it's okay, you are still allowed to enjoy it, and that's exactly what I did.Yeah, it's a no brainer and there are a few laughs where you expect maybe there shouldn't be, but you're still laughing and that's enjoyment. Who knows, perhaps they were expected! The plot isn't that tough to get a hold of, and the character of Vin Diesel just devours the screen almost blocking out the point for a plot in the first place, but it still doesn't matter. The action scenes are excellent fun, and watching the amazing avalanche sequence is wonderful. You know it just can't work out like that, but still, it's fantastic to watch.The acting isn't that bad and it's well filmed, and until you see the master plan in action everythings going along to plan and formula. It's that last part of the movie that bugs me, that contraption that is launched just seems toylike and over engineered to me. Without raising a laugh, it makes a mockery of what the film has been trying to do to that point and just looks entirely out of place.However, the stupid contraption aside, it's a really fun movie and a good way to waste a few hours in the name of entertainment. Diesel is very good and commands screen time, and the whole premise works out quite well.What did surprise me is seeing the almost subtle movement of the character from caring about himself and getting out of the mission alive and as soon as possible, to caring about the future of one person and then suddenly about the mission and the saving of the city. It was interesting seeing those scenes that pinpointed some of these moves and reinforced the stereotyped aspects of his character.Oh, plus he drove a really cool car in the film! The DVD Commentary is very entertaining and informative, with some really good insights into the process of filming and the characters involved. Rob Cohen clearly shows his passion for cinema throughout. The additional extras are enjoyable as well, and with deleted scenes including their own commentary, the whole package sits well on DVD. "},{"Title":"A bit of a cult classic","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I went to see this movie two years ago with the expectation of a modern American-style James Bond action-adventure. I was quite disappointed, at first. But now I think the movie has aged very well. It has a cool style, and Asia Argento makes it *very* much worth watching.While there are dumb things and bad performances in it, the movie *also* contains good things and some very serious performances. The overall plot may be ridiculous, but a lot of the individual scenes strike me as very realistic and believable.I strongly doubt the sequel will live up to the first. The first movie is on the road to becoming a cult classic; it has all the requisite things jokes, seriousness, sarcasm, irreverence, intensity, wild action, attractive characters. Even a hell-bent anti-establishment attitude. In fact, the only weak parts are some of the ridiculously evil bad guys, and a bad climax. But hey, most cult classics have pretty bad climaxes.I first rated this movie 6 out of 10, but I've subsequently had to make an upward modification to 8. It deserves it. "},{"Title":"It accomplished what it set out to do...","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As the Bond franchise has worn on past its use-by date with not a fresh or new idea in sight, it should hardly be surprising that competition on the espionage-based action-adventure front is emerging. And to be quite frank, the competition doesn't exactly have a tough field to fight on. Three of the last four Bond films have been utter tripe, with the most recent in particular an utter embarrassment in the face of this upstart. Even Licence To Kill isn't all that interesting compared to some of the recent cloak and dagger superheroes we've seen in film or otherwise.XXX succeeds where Bond has failed by setting aside any conventions about class or preening, and getting right back into the guts of what a visual medium should be about. Deisel's Xander Cage doesn't expect the viewer to be impressed by overused dialogue. Instead, he communicates through a relative economy of words and lets his actions do most of the talking. The gadgets or stunt skills demonstrated in early parts of the film have a purpose later on in the story.It is this latter point where XXX utterly caned Bond 20. In XXX, we see our hero steal a car from the kind of man anyone who grew up during the 1970s or 1980s would love to stick on a pole and drive it off a bridge. While the snowboarding sequence crossed the line between extreme and ridiculous, Vin Deisel makes this work because he looks, sounds, and even generally acts the part. After Bond 20's See? I can be X-TREME too! opening, it's no wonder that rumours are persistent that Pierce Brosnan will not be coming back.But to get away from the Bond/XXX comparisons for a second, let's look at what this film was trying to accomplish. You can have all the extreme sports conventions and secret agent plots in the world, but it is all for naught if you don't entertain your audience. In that sense, XXX works by diving right into the Indiana Jones style of action, setting a pace that gives the viewer little, if any time to consider the improbabilities of the situation. Which is one area that any action film thrives upon - if you give your audience time to think about what they've just seen and how probable it is, you're dead in the water.Going back to comparisons between XXX and Bond for a second, it seems a fixture of this kind of series to have improbable women with improbable personalities doing (comparatively) mildly improbable things. If the action is only as good as the main antagonist, then the dialogue and interpersonal relationships are only as good as the leading woman. XXX has Asia Argento. The last five Bond films have had Halle Berry, Sophie Marceau, Teri Hatcher, Izabella Scorupco, and Carey Lowell. Rosamund Pike and Famke Janssen notwithstanding, I rest my case in this department.Getting away from that overworked comparison again, I am definitely not a XXX zealot. There are numerous problems with the film that become obvious when you look past the surface. None of the characters have anything remotely resembling a third dimension, and many of them don't even approach a second. As previously hinted, some of the stunts are so ridiculous that they almost undo the film. Even when your pace is so fast that you're not giving the audience time to think, you can't just openly defy the laws of physics. A hero narrowly dodging bullets, an audience will accept. A hero running from the centre of a nuclear explosion (or an avalanche) past the edge without the aid of a miracle, they won't.Unfortunately, it seems that XXX is destined not to become even a two-episode franchise. Deisel has already left the series, and the same director who helmed Bond 20 looks set to direct episode two. A two-punch knockout, in other words. Given that XXX is firmly rooted in the time it was made, however, that's probably a good thing. In all, I gave it a seven out of ten. Jump in expecting merely to be entertained, and you can't go wrong.  "},{"Title":"not really all that bad...","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pretty good movie. Not too many movies can bring together all the action, great soundtrack, and a not too bad story.I really do love a movie that does not rely on a rap soundtrack to make the movie work. Rap should not be used for anything...ever!But back to the movie...Not too bad of a story. I nice new modern day twist on the James Bond 007 story. Some things could have been made a little better, but it still fits together pretty well. Vin Diesel's acting is not all too bad. Asia Argentina Also does her part to make this movie work. The dialogue is what you would expect in a movie like this...Filled with one liners. Though some do tend to get stupid, they quickly disappear.This was a very well done movie, and filled with action. If you love action, you will love this movie.  "},{"Title":"A Damn Good Movie","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" First some people don't know a good movie when they see one.  XXX was the best action/spy/whatever else kind of movie.  In order to understand it, you NEED TO BE A VIDEO GAME PERSON.  Otherwise you'll be like the people who didn't get it.  So if your not between 13 and 20 don't even bother to 'waste you time' and go watch one of you 'good' spy movies the ones my generation doesn't understand.Second this movie just kicked ass.  Not a terribly complex plot, but easy to figure out, but not too simple to be stupid.A good movie for the young, not the old.  For example, the comedy was funny but not hilarious.  The extreme stunts were f**king well, extreme. (A moment of silence for Harry O'Connor a guy with the coolest f**king job in Hollywood)That's all I got, eat three good meals, take one good s**t, and go to bed. "},{"Title":"Great Action Movie","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The problem with the reviews for this movie, is that they seem to be uniformly negative. The problem is I have with that, is that this is a hip, fun, exciting, action packed movie that is extremely entertaining.The negative reviews do not reflect the fact that XXX (2002) grossed $142 million, which compares very favorably with The World Is Not Enough's (1999) $126 million, and is on a par with Die Another Day's (2002) $ 162 million.So, someone must have enjoyed this movie, and I refuse to believe that I'm the only one. I found it far less predictable than the James Bond junk that is churned out every three   years. The last Bond movies were sleep inducing. This isn't. If you think the concept of Vin Diesel as a secret agent extreme sports fanatic is improbable, wait until you have to make sense of a 50-something British flamboyant secret agent having 20-something babes swoon all over him. So, don't let the miserable little Vin Diesel haters keep you from enjoying a pretty good action movie. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but pretty bad","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  XXX is rightfully compared to the James Bond series. It does indeed resemble the recent incarnations of the British secret agent movies except that its makers seem to have been intent on overdoing everything. This includes more bad acting, more ridiculous sets, more ugly props, more unbelievable explosions. Oh and whoever thought of a solar powered submarine ought to be shot (although the submarine ends up navigating on the surface all the time so I expect it's not that big an issue after all). The only strange exception was that the female lead didn't have a breast implant for some strange reason. Maybe all the budget was spent buying gasoline for the explosions.Some lines of the dialog are relatively funny in a 2nd degree kind of way buy most fall flat, thanks to Vin Diesel's remarkably flat acting (and to the lines themselves not being all that great to begin with).So what you'll get is people driving cars amidst fuel explosions while firing guns (poorly, as usual) and delivering poor one liners. It is entirely possible to spend two hours that way on a rainy night and even remotely enjoy it but if you want a good action movie or one with clever dialogs or even decent acting, this definitely isn't it. "},{"Title":"superhero..huh..","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hollywood has been trying so hard to force feed a superhero action star over the years and here comes another one in the form of Vin Diesel. Sure he's built like a truck,but he doesn't have a lick of charisma. Sly Stallone has got more charisma in his pinky finger than Vin Diesel does in his whole pecked body. He also doesn't have a lick of charm or decent talent. I never had no use for him in Pitch Black or Fast and The Furious. He's simply run-of-the-mill. The film is one of those bloated action pics that would love to at least be half as charming as..say..Demolition Man,but couldn't even tie Tango and Cash's shoelaces. The film is a desperate attempt at being a steroid pumped James Bond but lacks any punch,charm,or thrills to ever come close. BOMB/***** "},{"Title":"THIS ROCKS!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What happens when you mix James Bond with The Fastlane, Extreme Sports and The Fast And The Furious?You get xXx, the coolest, most action packed and hip Bond movie of the decade. Vin Diesel rocks as the extreme sports fan turned superspy. Samuel L. Jackson has a very good cameo as X's superviser, and Asia Argento proves that she continues to be very, very hot.X (as he's known to his friends) is sent to infiltrate a murky gothic/metal Russian political group in Prague, Anarchy99, who are plotting armageddon. Enough of that, let's get back to the toys. This is an action driven, top of the line cars driven, gadget driven, hot babe driven, stunt driven movie that will have you holding on to your seats. And Vin Diesel too. 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Why does Vin Disel still make movies?","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is the second remake of Fast and the Furious (the first remake being Fast and the Furious part 2.)  This new genre of fast cars, studs and women is really a combination of the action genre with sex appeal and automotives.  In my day, a film had a plot and was entertaining.  Where have all the intellectual films gone? "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, great cast","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin Diesel plays Xander Cage. Samuel L. Jackson plays Agent Augustus Gibbons, who needs someone to be able to go inside a group of Russian criminals. He picks Xander.He goes through a few tests to see how quickly he can figure things out and to see if he can survive. He passes and ends up being sent to Russia. While there, he is ordered to acquire cars and to gain the trust of these people. Cage changes the list of the cars and they change how long he will be there. He obtains all of the information that they want. With having their bank account numbers, the NSA is able to track their movements. They never expected Xander to be able to obtain all of this information for them in just a couple of days.What Rob Cohen was trying to express was that not all crooks are bad people. This movie does a great job of saying that some deserve another chance at life, and to be useful. Cage does an awesome job of showing gow well a crook can get in with another group of criminals, obtain the information that our government can use to shut them down.The dialogue was terrific; there is no question about that. When it came to picking the cast for the film, they did a great job. The actors and actress were great. Cohen has cast members that people already know, and then there are some actors that no one's ever seen before in a film before. By putting Jackson and Diesel together made this movie even better. Then there's Asia Argento, the main actress in the film. She also does an outstanding job. Great movie, great cast, I love this movie. By putting these members of the cast together, they couldn't have made a better film than what they did. "},{"Title":"Why not call it Secret Agenting Extreme and get it over with?","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of my rules of thumb is that anything with Extreme in the title isn't worth the time; Extreme Ghostbusters, Aspen Extreme, even the short-lived TV series Extreme. If XXX had had Extreme in the title, I could have saved myself two hours - it would also have captured the spirit it has. And its intellectual level.XXX is an action movie with the mentality of an extreme sports freak, has an extreme sports freak as its hero, and seems to have been written by an 11-year-old fan of same - which is one reason why this movie doesn't work; the movie's desire to break loose is held back by its 12 rating (or its PG-13 rating, if you're American). There's plenty of action in this movie, but no real adrenalin surge; it's all attitude but no meaning, it walks the walk but never talks the talk, never really making the grade as a spy adventure thanks to Rich Wilkes's poor script. The makers may have been wanting to come up with a new Bond for a new generation, but comparisons to almost any hero of the past/present are lacking; as far as dramas about feckless adventurers being blackmailed into serving the cause of justice go, Tony Curtis and Roger Moore did it better with The Persuaders!Which brings us to the biggest reason why this movie doesn't work (apart from the overall lack of panache, the unconvincing FX, the endless running time, the charisma-lite villain (Marton Csokas), the fact that our hero is given X-ray binoculars, the unappealing Asia Argento, the attempts at one-liners that nearly all fall flat, etc) - star and executive producer Vin Diesel. XXX wants us to worship its star as much as he does, but he never wins us over; his character comes across as a jerk, and when he suggests that the performers in a simulation chaired by NSA contact Samuel L. Jackson could do with acting lessons, it brings up an image of pots and kettles arguing about their colour. (Ditto his suggestion that Argento's character go to charm school.) The small army of stunt doubles listed in the credits doesn't help his cause either.There's some nice mountain scenery, and I certainly enjoyed Asylum's title sequence, but the best thing about the movie is the music - David McCallum's easy listening version of Mellow Yellow in the diner scene (add The Man From U.N.C.L.E. to the list of spies Xander Cage isn't in the same league with) is a plus among the source music and songs, and director Rob Cohen's favoured composer Randy Edelman furnishes his strongest score in years, obviously relishing a change from endless comedies. Let's hope he comes back for the sequel (yes, masochists, there's one coming...).Parting shot our hero and his female friend having dinner in a posh restaurant. Do you know any high class place that would allow a vest-wearing tattooed baldy in without a dinner jacket? But then, XXX doesn't give a XXXX about plausibility... "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After watching pitch black I was hooked on vin diesel so couldn't wait for his next film. I know some people say this is just james bond gone wrong, but for someone who never say james bond as i'm not that old, this film was very enjoyable. diesel made a convincing bad gut that you had to love. The stunts were fantastic and story was good. "},{"Title":"Vin Diesel plays a breath taking action hero","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  he played the part so well and he did a very good good at the funny scenes and i hope that the 2 one is just as good as the 1st one and hope that he stays an actor for along time. there were some parts that i wish he would have done different but he did a very great job and he will be around for along time "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen. A bunch of B-movie stereotypes, explosions and situations that even a 10-year-old action movie fan would find ridiculuos, exXxagerated and out of any reality and believableness. Noisy, boring and acted truly bad. From the worst of the action movies of the eighties, the new worst for the new millennium. "},{"Title":"What you get when a bunch of marketing execs get together...","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Movies like this happens when a bunch of marketing executives get together, trying to cash in on the teen-age market. This movie is the celluoid equivalent of N'Sync and the Backstreet Boys (or the Bay City Rollers, if you remember them).This is almost like a high budget Catalina Caper, though thankfully we don't have to put up with Little Richard singing (we do have the modern version of Little Richard, the flavor of the month rock bands on the soundtrack).Xander Cage? Mwhahahahahahahahahhahaha. Even Vin Diesel didn't pick a stage name as goofy as that (well, almost).Vin Diesel by most accounts is a good guy. So I don't blame him for cashing in. But what is Samuel Jackson thinking? This movie is even more souless and corporate than the Shaft remake. "},{"Title":"I LIVE FOR THIS S**T!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the best action films of recent years and a great starring vehicle for Vin Diesel, directed by the same man responsible for Diesel's earlier film THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS.  Diesel is great as the extreme sports nut Xander Cage and Samuel L. Jackson is great as the government agent who recruits him into the NSA.POSSIBLE SPOILERS!Xander has a problem with authority and after stealing and wrecking a right-wing senator's car, Jackson sees that he has potential. He then has Xander abducted and makes him undergo a tough training exercise in the coke fields of Colombia.  In this exercise, Xander shows what he is made of. In keeping with his disrespect for authority, Xander initially refuses to co-operate, but when Jackson offers to expunge his record with the police, he is quick to agree.Xander's first mission is to infiltrate a European terrorist group known as Anarchy 99 (who, of course, want to take over the world) who were responsible for the murder of an NSA agent.Despite being new to the spy business, Xander takes charge instantly as he ditches the Czech cop he's supposed to be working with and goes about the mission his way. But can he save the day? I won't spoil it for you!The performances of the other cast members are very good as well, although Danny Trejo (DESPERADO, SPY KIDS, CON AIR) is wasted in a brief role as a Colombian druglord.  Vin Diesel gets a cool car once again (a Pontiac GTO this time) and lots of cool gadgets thanks to Shavers, a nerdy Q wannabe.The action is excellent throughout the film (parachuting, snowboarding and riding a dirt bike while under fire from a military gunship are all thrown into the mix) and the plot has it's tongue wedged firmly in its cheek. Mr. Diesel has a fine line in wisecracks and the eager to please Shavers steals some scenes as well.  Jackson plays it straight for most of the film, but gets one of the best lines in the film.  Making a sequel to this picture was a great move, and I can't wait to see it.  Action movie fans and Vin Diesel fans will not be disappointed.  Mr. Diesel could very easily be the action movie star of the next decade!10/10!  "},{"Title":"I'm sorry.  Was this supposed to be good?","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Tonight here on The Scarecrow Man comedy show we have Vin Diesel's Comedy Smash XXX!That's right complete with ridiculous one liners such asThe Things I'm gonna do for my countryHystericalVin, let me ask you hwo did you get into comedy?Well after great performances in Pitch Black and Boiler Room, I decided actor schmactor!HystericalNo seriously was this supposed to be good?Well Xander Cage is a witty guy.No seriously.He's funnyNo serioulyHe is a great role for meNow that is HYSTERICAL.  Tell me, do you like sushi?SureGood because in 2 years that is what your career will be.Well what would you classify it as now?Dung! "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever, but...","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" ...hilarious for that very same reason. I went into this film with the expectation that it was either going to bad/bad or bad/good. It turned out to be the latter. In a way, watching this movie was kind of sad. You know that everyone working on this film thought they were making a really cool movie, but it ended up being embarrassingly terrible. For the love of it all, XXX pulls tricks on his motorbike while he dodges bullets and escapes from explosions!Another point to mention is that if you only read the dialogue of this movie, you would have no clue what it was about. It's all just really lame one-liners! But then again, that's what makes it so funny.I highly recommend this film if, like me, you enjoy absurdly terrible films.  "}{"Title":"How can this possible have a 6.1 score?","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is funny, but not because of the lame quips made constantly by XXX.  Its full of stupid garbage and lame efforts at being cool.  I nearly turned it off half way through.  This is easily the worst movie made since Xanadu. "},{"Title":"Terrible Film?","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have to admit that I wasn't expecting much from this film. The trailer made it seem so ridiculous and predictable. Starring Vin Diesel (Saving Private Ryan, Pitch Black), plays an extreme sports fanatic who is sent by our government to find out about a Russian secret society called, Anarchy '99. Naturally, this secret society, or gang, has plans of world domination by the use of chemical weapons. It's a pretty obvious plot that we have seen used before. Some may say that I should lighten up about the whole thing, and remember that this kind of film is more for fun, what with it's action sequences, slick one-liners, fast cars, cool fight scenes, and beautiful women. Well, its action sequences weren't done all that well, in my opinion. Its slick one-liners weren't even amusing. I could care less about its fast cars, or it's typical fight sequences. It does have a beautiful woman, but most of them seem like skanks. There was one thing that I did think was somewhat cool; an avalanche scene, that although was impossible, was cool visually. And Vin Diesel can act, although this was a film that really didn't require him to give a good performance. I would have expected something much better from director Rob Cohen, who last year directed the successful film, The Fast & The Furious, which wasn't that bad at all. But XXX just stinks! Look, to sum it up, XXX tries to be a younger, cooler James Bond. Sorry folks, you don't send a boy to do a man's job. * 1/2 "},{"Title":"The XXX is actually a disclaimer","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I didn't expect too much from Cohen since he's a schlock meister like Emmerich, and Bay. But he give us Dragon The Bruce Lee Story, and not much worth mentioning. The premise is so ludicrous, if stuntmen can take on terrorists, then why are the terrorists so problematic instead of inept? Diesel makes a wooden performance not only stiff, but obnoxious. Like we're supposed to laugh at his funny & glib remarks. The whole movie fails on every level. It's not funny, too predictable, far fetched, it doesn't have revolutionary effects or give us anything we haven't seen before. Like Diesel says in the diner Their performances were terrible. Talk about breaking the fourth wall. "},{"Title":"Triple Excrement (spoilers)","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" It's obvious that xXx is trying to replace Bond. After all, the opening scene shows a tuxedoed spy getting shot to bits &#150; the symbolism is hardly subtle. But what has he been replaced with? Well, the hard-drinking, murdering, womanising superspy has been replaced by somebody who's, er, totally 'off the chain'. Somebody who's down with the kids. Somebody who's in tune with modern society. Yeah, our new hero doesn't smoke and he doesn't drink to excess, but he does play videogames and he does have lots of tattoos. He also hangs around with skateboarders and other 'extreme' sports enthusiasts. In other words, our hero is a loser.And worse than that, our hero is also excruciatingly self-righteous. At the beginning he steals the car of some senator who wants to ban rap music and videogames. I'm sorry, but I'm with Poindexter &#150; if banning rap music and videogames helps gets the X Games off my TV screen then I'm all for it.Normally at this point, in light of the film having such a loathsome hero, I'd express my admiration for the bad guys, but if there's one thing I hate more than tattoo-clad tosspots who play videogames and listen to rap music, it's Goths. And if there's one thing I hate more than regular Goths, it's European Goths. They're Goths with an accent.The opening scenes where the Bond imitation gets killed are almost impossible to watch. You see, the bloke wanders into a death metal gig. And so instead of having to listen to rap and some guy telling you how big his genitals are, you have to listen to dirty Eurotrash shout incompressible gibberish about rotting corpses. Can't someone just slaughter both sides? But making the scene even more risible is the fact that one of the band members in this Goth club has a flamethrower attached to his face. Wow, that is so&#133;stupid.Of course, the bad guys lap this all up. But then again, we are talking about a bunch of Russian idiots who call themselves 'Anarchy 99'. I mean, come on, that's a bit limp, isn't it? Anarchy 99? Ooh, we sound like a 14-year old sadsack writing in his tearstained journal. But although the film gives us a token explanation for the bad guys wanting 'anarchy' &#150; they were soldiers and they no longer want people dying for politicians &#150; it smacks of a zit-faced loser whining in his mother's basement. Ooh, the world treated us badly. Ooh, the system is wrong. Ooh, I'm angry. Ah, grow up.But what's amazing is that Cage (Vin Diesel) doesn't genuinely hook up with these Goth cretins. I mean, they both hate The Man and they're both self-righteous morons, so they should be the best of pals. But instead it's Cage's job to bring them down. And why does he do this? Because he has principles? Because he's perceptive? Because he thinks that no heterosexual man should hang out in a club with candelabra in it? No, he does it because he has no balls. He wants to avoid prison. So yet again Generation X proves itself to be a massive sell out.But of course, despite the hero being a total eunuch, the film desperately wants to convince us it's edgy. So as well as tattoos and bad music, you also have to witness the flaccid attempts at injecting sex into the film. I think the moment that made me laugh the most was when some woman does a pole dance on a four-poster bed. Yeah, rad. But although the film thinks this is incredibly 'hawt', it is, being a conformist piece of rubbish, a PG-13, so we don't get nudity. Boo. And on top of that we have to witness the horror that is Vin Diesel kissing.The action doesn't fare much better, either. One of the worst bits has to be when Cage, while flying in mid-air riding a dirt bike, kicks a sentry in the head. Pur-lease. And then there's the way that when riding his dirt bike helicopters can't shoot him. They can shoot to the left and right of him, but they can't make a direct hit. And on a smaller scale of awfulness, there's a scene where Cage slides down a rail on a metal tray like Legolas Greenleaf.But probably the worst thing in the film (even worse than the 'crazy' Q imitation and the fruity little guns that everyone sports with a million gizmos attached to them) is the Submarine O' Death. Yep, the bad guys, in time honoured fashion, want to bring about anarchy by gassing everyone via a gay little submarine/boat-type thingy. Really, it's the stupidest piece of crap you've ever seen. It looks about as awesome and threatening as a two-inch penis. And then you have to watch Cage wrestle with this thing to save humanity. And on top of that, to highlight what's at stake, we get shots of babies and couples kissing. Bond never got this gooey. Plus Bond knew how to fire a gun, didn't kill the bad guy entirely through luck and had sex with lots of women along the way. Oh, but Cage is the one that's edgy. Remember, he has tats! "},{"Title":"fun ALTERNATIVE to James Bond","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" while this movies plot is overall very thin, its presentation is amazing. the stunts performed in this movie have much more attitude and style than most other secret agent movies.some people think this was supposed to replace 007. I can only say... WHAT THE %&@# ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT. 1 xXx is not suave, 2 xXx does not have super high tech gadgetry, 3 xXx only comes close to comparing to the stunts of 007.Vin Diesel's character Xander Cage is not trained to be a secret agent, he's not meant to look at a situation and figure all the angles and beat the bad guy. he has other people doing the thinking for him. plus there are several times in the movie where his inexperience with such tools as firearms shows. Cage is a guy that looks at movies and says I could do that. thats what made him an extreme athlete. he doesn't get the hang of actually killing people for a while. he finds his skills from copying what he sees in movies and does in video games.one of my favorite parts of the movie is when Diesel says to a cop,you got a bazooka, dude stop thinking Prague police and start thinking Playstation, BLOW $#!% UP! this one line shows that he is immature and inexperienced. hes always just along the lines of reality and video games, as that is a big part of todays culture.His inexperience as a secret agent is the second main highlight of this film, he is just an extreme sports punk. nothing more nothing less. "},{"Title":"it was a awesome movie","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" i really liked the whole movie and i liked the Pontiac Gto in it i really liked the girls in it as well and i really liked the second movie as well what really put down the second one was that Vin diesel was not in the second one because i thought he did really well in the first one and my mum really likes Vin diesel and Vin diesel is an awesome actor you should make another movie like triple x but have car chases and make a game with Vin diesel in it and make it like triple x and get Eleanor in some of Vin diesels movies because the 1967 mustang was a awesome car and there should be more guns they should put the desert eagle in some movies because it would make a movie come alive if any one has any queries feel free to email me on abrunton40@yahoo.co.nz "},{"Title":"Worst Secrete Agent Movie Ever","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie has all the elements to be called a complete failure,it is boring,empty,not original,the action stunts are fantasy,does n't have good actors,this movie completely awful.I don't know why Vin Diesel is so famous,he is not a good actor,but he makes the ladies go crazy so let put him in a movie that calls James Bond an old fashioned,well I have news for you,James Bond is way better than this movie.Well let's start.First,from the beginning of this movie I knew that the Russian lady was an agent too,but I said,no this people cant do this again,it has been done like a hundred times,it would be so pathetic then the Russian lady opened her mouth to say she was an agent too,WOW ! what a surprise,they killed this movie with this.The action stunts in this movie are more fantasy than reality,I know that there's a lot of good movies with action stunts that are not believable,but this is too much.Vin Diesel was supposed to play in this movie a rebel,and he was too hot to be rated with other classification than XXX,but he ends up looking like a James Bond wannabe.With his car full of missiles and secrete compartments and secrete agent stuff,he also falls in love with who they want us to believe that is the bad girl,JUST LIKE JAMES BOND !!,if Vin diesel were a video games I would rate him E for everyone,he is nowhere near a XXX classification in this movie.This movie failed to be good in whatever it was supposed to be good at,and it also failed EVEN MORE in everything it was not meant to success in,the only reason to watch this movie is for those crazy girls that love Vin,otherwise it's not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Wild Bike,  Out of this World Biker !","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Found this film quite different than other films and I must say, this film went to many film locations and created a great realism through out the entire film. Everything but the kitchen sink was put into this action film. The real bad dude in this film said, Let all the Nations of the world blow themselves up and I will have it all to myself Vin Diesel,(Yonder Cage),A Man Apart,'03, started out as a rather tough character, but Asia Argento,(Yelena),Land of the Dead,'05, calmed him down with some rather deep tongue kisses and cut him off, just as things were starting to warm up, but this was only the beginning of the film. This film will keep you on the edge of your seat and it is full of great entertainment; all the stars were outstanding. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made?","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, I began watching this movie with trepidation and interest, which quickly turned into annoyance, then enormous irritation, then disbelief, then finally hilarity. This has got to be one of the most appalling, pointless, moronic, tedious films ever made - it is a triumph of bad film-making. The performances from Diesel, Jackson and everyone else in the film are at a level more often seen in nativity plays, ably assisted by a script resembling an episode of The A-Team but with less emotion and less philosophical depth. I have never been a great fan of James Bond movies, but I suddenly felt a warm, intense longing for Connery, Moore et al after seeing this absolute car-crash of a film. Beyond the extraordinary incompetence of the direction (from a director clearly unable to understand the use and necessity of geography in any scene, let alone the concepts of atmosphere, tension etc), the poor, out-of-date special effects, over-bearing, nasty score, and desperately awful acting, this was so enormously old-fashioned as to be insulting. I would advise reading the local telephone directory rather than watching this excretion. "},{"Title":"Fatal","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When True Lies came out, I admit it was lame.  Certainly lamer than T2, but it still had its moments.  James Cameron might not concoct the greatest scripts, have the best casts, or use his camera in the right fashion, but at least he can be concerned about such details as dialog and plot.xXx only shows that American cinema is getting synonymous with American torture methods.  The movie is one whole mind-numbing, brain-rotting, nihilistic overdose of color and crap.  There is no message, there is no style, there is no understanding of the genre, and, furthermore, it is made by the creators of The Fast and the Furious.  If that movie marks a change in the action genre, I am sorely ashamed to go to the theater today.XXX starts its failures by having an actor who couldn't act to save his neck.  I was happy when Diesel's character bit the dust in 'Private Ryan and this movie made me wish that it happened more often in his movies.  I'd pay to see that.  Not to mention the fact that no effort is made on the behalf of Rob Cohen--whose name has never been related to smart film--to make this film anything better than what it starts out being.Overall, skip this movie.  There isn't anything here that hasn't been done someplace else with more power and finesse.  Just the same as Bad Boys II. 1 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"insulting movie","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  *1/2 out of **** This movie was a waste of my time and a waste of my money. It insulted my logic.  If you like mindless action without even the technicalities done right, go for it.  This movie has a silenced rifle that shoots BANG, a lady that too close resembles a monkey trying to be exotic, a missle launcher made from a handy cam, every building blowing up like a gas station, and overall, the main character knows everything he should, be it that he's into extreme sports and all. "},{"Title":"Good action sequences,but that's about it","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  At a running time at close to 125 minutes,this was one of the best action movies to come around but it doesn't come even close to one of the best of 2002,but overall a pleasing popcorn picture that will leave them breathless that is,if you under the ages of 13 or over. To one of the hairless action guys to come along in years since the heydays of Yul Brenner or Issac Hayes for that manner,Vin Diesel looks and dresses like a bouncer and his reluctant non-acting recalls the insouiciance of little-missed bruisers of yore,such as Jean Claude Van Demme,Chuck Norris,Steven Seagal,Sylvester Stallone,and Dolph Lundgren and others in that category. With his tattoos,his shaved head and his hyperactivity he's an action hero for the generation weaned on extreme sports,Playstation and Ritalin with a flair for fast cars,secret gadgets,beautiful women,and villains bent on world destruction(the producers copied the formula of James Bond to the exact tee).Since his target is very young,it looks like we'll be stuck with him for a while. The plot of XXX involves a extreme sport expert who is recruited for the government which includes his boss(played by Samuel L. Jackson)who has him sent to spot a band of Czech band of anarchists and a bio-weapon from destroying the world. But the movie is about Vin Diesel,and his wheels,his women,his attitude(Noo-Yawk),and his mysterious charm. The avalanche scene featuring our hero outrunning hisadversaries is worth the price of admission and that's about it folks. "},{"Title":"Damn that send button, I hadn't finished!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Where was I?So where were they going to find a Q?  Quite sensibly, they didn't try. Instead they bring in bumbling, really wannabe in the field Agent Shavers (played up big by Michael Roof) who's job it is to ramp up Cage's arsenal of gadgets. Although a small part, he makes his mark as what will surely become an embryonic yet developing character in the series to follow. New Zealander Csokas too, just cuts loose as Russian Mafia head Yorgi....what the HELL is he doing in GARAGE DAYS?Besides the top-drawer stunt work and CGI back-up (The avalanche scenes, though fun, were a tad loopy, overdone and lacking in visual credibility) Dean Semmler's cinematography was just stunning. No other word for it! Coupled with the most extraordinarily sound fx too, this is one seriously professional and audience-involving piece of cinema.A Great film it can never be - a more honest-to-God actioner though just doesn't exist..(yet!) "},{"Title":"Brings new meaning to the term 'insulting to the viewers intelligence'","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Values change over time. A hundred years ago, you were happy if you could live past the age of thirty and had someone you liked to spend your time with. Until recently, you expected an action film to be more than a muscled guy spouting poor one-liners and blowing stuff up. Well, I guess that would be recently meaning up to the early 80's... but this is really setting a new standard, breaking all limits and going through the bottom and setting a whole new low. When did movies get this damn loud? I had to turn down the volume before the opening title appeared on the screen. Before I proceed with this review, I must give you an example of just how bad it is, try to give you an idea of it. About three minutes into the film, a guy(who is *clearly* a secret agent, and clearly meant to die right away) runs through a crowded dance floor, knowing he's been spotted. Instead of trying to disappear in the crowd(come on, nobody does that anymore... right? I mean, it wouldn't do anything... not even throw off the orientation of whoever is chasing him and give the sniper aiming at him a run for his money), he jumps up on the stage... making himself the most obvious freaking target ever. So what happens? He gets shot. Big surprise. Yeah, but what happens next? He falls backwards into the crowds' hands, who treat him like he was stage-diving...(backwards... unmoving... with a big, red spot on the front of his suit... honestly, how much does the film-makers expect us to swallow?) No, seriously. At that point(well, actually even before that) I knew that the movie I was about to see wouldn't have any value or serve as anything even remotely interesting. It's not even a decent time-killer... I've stared at spots that were far more exciting than the fake, clearly orchestrated action. I've seen drunks and stoners that were more coordinated than the gun hit placements in this film. The plot makes no conceivable sense. The pacing is so far off that I'm surprised I didn't fall asleep a few minutes(not to say it wasn't a struggle). The acting is horrendous, with one or two possible exceptions. One thing I want to make perfectly clear; Vin Diesel is NOT one of those exceptions. Vin Diesel... what kind of a damn name is that? You don't have to be a genius to figure out it's a fake name(oh, sorry, an 'artistic' name... please). You want to know his real name? Check his biography. No, wait, I'll make it even easier; I'll tell you. It's Mark Vincent. Now doesn't that just sound cool? No? Well, apparently Mark didn't think so either. What's that? He was convinced that he wouldn't be popular with that name? Well, Schwarzenegger didn't change his name. Neither did Van Damme. They seem popular enough... right? The truth is, Mark is just a poser... he's just another muscled guy who can't act but who is attractive to the girls(god only knows what they find so damn amazing by that brainless jock). He spends half of the movie talking about how it's bull that video-games and violent movies corrupt the American youth, and you can't help but think about what he says... and realize it's true. He's the one corrupting them, he and anyone else responsible for this movie and any other of its kind. All this talk of anarchy and the general 'screw you' attitude towards any form of authority... seriously, it's like they're trying hard to turn kids against parents, teachers and cops. Isn't America sufficiently plagued with young criminals? And what the hell is up with the thoroughly misogynistic way of presenting female characters? Just about all of them are whores and generally just there to please the men. No protests, no 'I'm better than this stuff' attitude anywhere... they just accept that women are made to serve men, and nothing else. The one female character who isn't giving it away for free as my favorite character ever, Dr. Cox of the TV show Scrubs would put it, is still a hooker. I think her exact words are 'I could be your girl instead of his(the bad guy's)... if you would pay me as much as he does'. OK, so maybe she isn't really a prostitute... but she falls head over heels over Mark, after knowing him for very little time. Finally, I'd just like to say that the effects are generally horrid, the action is dull, derivative and lacking in any imagination or creativity and the weapon/gadgets usually work as a huge tease. Being the big lover of weapons that I am, I was a tad excited when Mark was handed what has to be one of the biggest damn hand-cannons seen on film. Imagine my disappointment when the sap barely uses it at all. The same goes for gadgets(less important, but still). Also, near the end, Mark gets to drive a bad-ass car with a trunk-load(literally) of destructive hardware... and it's only used for having the typical 'there must be something here we can use/oh what does this button do then' scene. The characters are all stereotypes and clichés, with Mark being the guy who saves the world because he has muscles, a low vocabulary, a ridiculous accent and some poor one-liners, Asia being the girl who falls in love with Mark for no apparent reason, the geek who gives Mark his gadgets(I won't bother to change his name). Eve even shows up, seemingly just to tell off a video game producer... because Mark won't 'sell out'. Whatever the hell that means. Wouldn't someone fighting for video-games be honored or consider it a victory to have his own game? I recommend this only to fans of Mark as well as mindless teenagers with no conception of how the real world works. If you're still not sure, yes, I do hate Mark Vincent/Vin Diesel. I really do. 1/10 "},{"Title":"This movie represents everything bad about the action genre","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Poor Vin Diesel...... He had some great potential showing in things like Boiler Room, but he apparently felt that he found his niche in films like xXx, where lines are really corny and go something like Do you want some ice before your brain overheats? It's a shame.This movie (movie, not film film implies it's more sophisticated) threw away any opportunities for acting by making the characters larger than life (by a scale of about a trillion% ), so any potential care for the characters was instantly eradicated.xXx, in the opening act, offers Diesel's character as a, for lack of a better term, badbutt rebel (how original). He is then forced by Samuel L. Jackson (in one of his worst vehicles) to use his power for good (how original). Then he gets with a girl (how original). Then he saves the world (haven't seen that one before). In fact, the only potential way this film could have been good was if it had been a satire on action films, but sadly that wasn't the intended goal.I must apologize I haven't begun to even scratch the surface of this blatantly unoriginal movie (the only more unoriginal movie was its sequel, xXx State of the Union, because it copied everything the first did plus the first). Then, not only is it unoriginal, but it copies everything bad about other movies. Vin Diesel is a waste of potential talent, and the movie is bad. Bad multiplied by a 1 followed by 10,000 zeroes... then take that to the power of 1 followed by 100,000 zeroes. And that's being generous. "},{"Title":"very funny!!!","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The whole movie is pleasure to the eyes! It is unbelievable how many laughs i had. xXx is super cartoonish, Vin Diesel is excellent playing this role even his kisses are violent yes of course the script is following the classic bond films scripts,but thats the whole idea!When he is in the restaurant with Asia,and he just finds out that there is a sniper outside the building waiting to kill him,oh,what an escape!he used the serving disc for a skateboard and flick through the stair bars! Incredible laughs!What? Vin Diesel is not a good actor? Well what do you need to be a good actor? You have to create feelings to the ones watching you. According to this opinion,Vin is a really good actor,he wanted to make you feel super-excited and have fun and he achieved it!The movie is so beautiful you can even watch it mute,especially when Asia Argento is inside the frame.And all you people who found magnolia and interesting movie,well,please stay away from this diamond. How can you people think that a three-hour movie with a frog rain climax can be interesting? Especially when you can watch instead xxx snowboarding a down the hill with 1000 tonnes of snow chasing him!Every time a bring a scene of this movie in my mind i am laughing alone!Best after The big Lebowski "},{"Title":"What a bad film","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film at the time was so hyped up, that I had to go and see it, I like Vin Diesel, I think he's a good actor, it's just he gets given terrible scripts, there were certain bits in the film that were so far fetched that it boggles the mind to how the writers actually thought they could pull it off, in the film XXX gets some deadly looking car fully loaded with guns, flame throwers, rockets launchers the works, but yet he use's only 1 of these weapons, there's another bit when he's snowboarding down a mountain with about 50 bad guys chasing him, and he manages not to get 1 bit of snow on his, the quotes in the film are the best, my favourite was when these 2 bad guys are on the same mountain on snow mobiles and 1 of them says 'CATCH HIM QUICK, KILL HIM SLOW', and not forgetting the main bad guy with some super weapon looking like a cast off from the old Thunderbirds puppet series. All in all I thought the film was poor but a great laugh to watch because everything was so far fetched and made no sense at all. In saying that I did watch it at Christmas just to hear the 'CATCH HIM QUICK, KILL HIM SLOW' quote 1 last time, ROLL ON XXX2... "},{"Title":"One cliché after another.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I have nothing personal against Vin Diesel, but it just turns out such that I either love or hate his movies. There is no middle ground. xXx is one that I have a deep dislike for. Vin Diesel fits many parts but a James Bond-ish character is not one of them. It's not that his acting is subpar, but it just doesn't work. Add to this the fact that the movie is composed entirely of clichés and recycled, ridiculous action sequences, and it's all downhill. I actually squirmed when viewing the movie, I was that anxious for it to end. If you want to see Vin Diesel at his best, go see The Chronicles of Riddick, Pitch Black, or A Man Apart. xXx = formulaic, like The Pacifier. "},{"Title":"Oh god Lundgren with a way bigger budget! what a waste of time and money!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" oh my god is this a crappy movie!!!! Who could possibly like this smeg??!?? Oh!! now he eliminates a whole drug-smugglers camp with a motorcycle, now he jumps from a plane, blah, blah..boom..boom..blah..blah..boom..boom No seriously this is not a movie it's more of an endlessly long universal- studios-stunt-show-rip-off. Vin Diesel is the worst actor i've ever seen, and whats up with Samuel L. Jackson? he must have been drunk as he accepted to be a part of this. shame on you man! Sorry and whats with all the sucky macho-action-attitude stuff?? don't get me wrong i like a good Arnie flick once in a while. so don't think i don't get the point that xXx is meant to be a cool brainless action-flick. The fact is that Diesel (unlike Arnie, Snipes, Stallone or Willis) even fails to deliver that kind of cool action-hero attitude and humor one finds in all those classic brainless action-flicks like True Lies, the Die Hard series or the Escape from.. films. Worst of all this film isn't entertaining at all. you'll just sit there and watch one stupid stunt, one brainless uncool line of dialog after another and pray it's over soon. I didn't get that far though, i had to turn the DVD-player off after 30 minutes because i could'nt stand the stupidity of this movie. In my opinion don't even think of watching this crap even if you love action movies. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever?","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" From start to finish this is a steaming pile of Tom Tit. It is the Thunderball/Never Say Never Again script, poorly adapted so Americans can get an insight & finally understand James Bond. There is not one original idea, even down to the star spangled banner on the parachute, seems awfully familiar!! There are a few saving graces though, namely the rather attractive wench's. I hoped Big Vin may go on to good things, i first saw him in Pitch Black of which I am a big fan, but since then his choice of films has been less than credible. Sam Jackson has been poorly cast in the film and does not do his great talent any justice. It may be argued that the actors & crew made the film as a good old bit of feel good American action, if so then fair play but please does inflict such bunkum on us chaps across the pond. "}{"Title":"Bad attempt at replacing James Bond","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie tries to bring in a new breed of secret agents. In the opening scene a old style agent in a tux is killed during a rock concert where he obviously looks out of place. Enter Vin Diesl as a macho extreme sports guy that is destined as the new breed of agent. After 2 days of training he is sent out to catch the bad guys. In order to make a good secret agent movie you need a great bad guy. The Russian ex-military, now anarchist is very stereotypical and pretty uninteresting. Even his Evil Plan (TM) was uninteresting.Overall a uninspired, boring movie even if it has a ton of explosions. Vin Diesl displays the acting skills of a garden gnome, and i kept hoping James Bond would show up in his tux to kick his ass. Even the worst James Bond movies is a lot better than this.  "},{"Title":"Really going downhill for Mr. Jackson","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  In terms of movie-budget Vin Diesel may be moving upwards from the absolutely awful The Fast & The Furious to the just as awful xXx, but that is about as positive as I can be.xXx's plot is pathetic, and it cannot match even the worst James Bond movies in terms of realism (and at least they can boast some level of originality). Since it isn't a James Bond spoof either then this just isn't worth spending the 2 hours on. There are no twists, turns or surprise twin brothers, only straight forward action with a lot of stunts, explosions, avalanches and bullets being fired that can hit everyone, except for Mr. Diesel.Vin Diesel plays an extreme-sport fanatic that is signed up as a government agent, but adds little depth or emotion to the character. His best performance was definitely still as the voice of the Iron Giant -)Maybe it is intentional, but then the directing leaves much to be desired, and judging from Samuel Jackson's performance then this may actually be the case. I always considered him a good actor, but I am drastically reviewing my opinion.Gone are the days of Pulp Fiction and 182 and there seems to be only lame big-budget action flicks left for him (and yes, I would say that Star Wars 1 & 2 fall under that category as well). It has really started to go downhill for him.Overall I give this a 2. It's still not the worst movie of all time, but I'm just getting too old for this. "},{"Title":"James Bond OO7 RIP-OFF!","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It was an ok action film but totally unrealistic. They call Triple X the new secret agent and Bond the old. Yet Triple X is even more unrealistic as a secret agent then the now over the top OO7. This is a good film to watch for mindless action but don't expect anything near Bond standard.-Rip-Off of OO7 -bad story +Fit Bird +SLJ +stunts7/10 "},{"Title":"Not good at all.","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  To sum it all up in a few words  It was corny.Vin's acting is not believable, he wasn't funny when he tried to be, and what was with the dancing girl in his room?  That was so cheesy.  Men find that sexy?  Okay...Maybe he should try another genre.  A genre where his character isn't trying too hard to be macho or the toughest guy in the room, and believes he is. As a woman, it really turned me off.Vin is somewhat of a newcomer.  So, that explains his part in this movie. But Samuel Jackson?  He has proven he's better than this.  He was the only reason I gave this movie a try.  It just surprised me.  "},{"Title":"suXsuXsuX","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Another sleeping pill from Rob Cohen and Vin Diesel. Fast and the Furious was awful and so is xXx too. Boring action and awful acting from entire cast. Even Samuel L. Jackson looked bored.  Xander Cage is no Bond.(2 out of 10 * out of *****) "},{"Title":"Loud and pointless with some disgraceful acting.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why does everyone like this film? If I was to summarise this in one word, I would say. eurotrash. That's all the film is, eurotrash. The majority of the film was set in Prague, and that's probably why I hated it. I understand that most big-budget action movies are loud and have their share of `big bangs', but in xXx, there is absolutely no trace of sophistication.The standard of acting is absolutely rock bottom. The entire movie focuses on Vin Diesel and not enough on other characters, dialogue and sub-plots. He simply can't carry the role and gives a blatantly unconvincing performance. As for the film's love interest Asia Argento, who's ever heard of her? She gives a very bland performance and does nothing more than look pretty and show off her chest. And the film's villain Yurgi, (don't know what his real name is) must be the worst villain in HISTORY. Even Sam L. Jackson knows he can do much better than this.OK, I'll admit, the film does have its positives. The avalanche scene at the end really is stunning, but that doesn't make up for the negatives, which took place beforehand.In conclusion, if you like German trash-metal band `Rammstein' you'll probably like this. I hate Rammstein-I loath xXx. 4.0 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Boring first half, enjoyable second half.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  5.5 out of 10XXX is this generation's answer to James Bond, a louder, cruder, even more extreme display of stunts, gadgets, sexy women, and spy work.  Vin Diesel stars as the titular hero and considering the role, he's perfect for the part, both charismatic and imposing.  Unfortunately, for a little over a whole hour, he's stuck amidst a boring movie that spends far too much time with uninteresting plot exposition and literal flash than delivering the well-choregraphed mayhem we expect.  It's only Diesel's charm and Asia Argento's sexiness that makes the first half bearable.The second hour is a marked improvement, finally delivering the thrilling action sequences the set-up promises.  Best of them all is the avalanche scene, a completely implausible but nonetheless exhilarating setpiece that is convincing on a visual level.  The final chase, with Diesel and Argento on a souped-up car going after a doomsday device on the water, is another exciting sequence. Action-wise, director Rob Cohen still disappoints somewhat with the occasional overdone slow-motion, and the big showdown you expect between Diesel and the lead villain never occurs.  Still, the hard-wired second half is enough to get me to believe the sequel could be the first-rate popcorn thriller this one aspired to be.   "},{"Title":"Don't watch it!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the most worst films I've ever seen (that saying a lot) XXX is a $ muncher. Xander Cage is a James Bond wannabe in the beginning but in the middle of the movie, just looks like he wants to get the movie through, take his money and go home. I seriously recommend you do not watch it.It has no good plot, script, or any character. Diesel should stick to fast and furious and be content. "},{"Title":"No kidding! A secret agent?","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Adrenaline-charged combustion. Full throttled maximum volume action. A government agency recruits an extreme-sports enthusiast(Vin Diesel)to covertly thwart a maniacal terrorist. Also in the cast areSamuel L. Jackson, Michael Roof, Asia Argento and Marton Csokas. Realityabsent. Escapeobvious with gusto. "},{"Title":"XXX is a awesome entertaining film with incredible action!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  xXx is an spectacular action movie! Vin Diesel acted good and he looked bigger than ever! Asia Argento looked great especially at the end! Marton Csokas and Samuel L. Jackson performed very well!I was amazed at the action/stunt scenes. Randy Edelman's score is very good! I can't wait for the sequel! If you like extreme action  movies and Vin Diesel then check out XxX today! "}{"Title":"XXX &#150; A Good Film? No, A Collection Of Goofs","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" There are good and bad films. Some are good in everything. Some are terribly bad. Some are funny, so their badness is not that terrible. Some are so dead serious that they become simply unbearable. But then, there are films that are nothing but a collection of hilarious goofs. XXX is one of those. No, let us be fair, Vin Diesel is a good actor, and here, he together with Samuel Jackson, try their best to save this quagmire of banalities and clumsy ideas. But they fail. The heavy lead weight of despicable cleavages and silly mistakes just draw this movie deep down. Well, the plot is trite to the last limit, so it is not worth retelling, but several obvious goofs and certain mistakes are obligatory to be mentioned. 1. When Vin's hero, XXX, is landing with a parachute after he exploded the read Corvette, we can see that on his neck there is no XXX tattoo, although, next moment, it does reappear. 2. FSB is an organization in Russia, which is concerned about internal affairs, so an agent of FSB will never be sent to any country like Czech Republic to work under cover. The American equivalent will be FBI, which is not connected with the activities like in the film. Moreover, FSB never let its agents be neglected. Even in the wild 90's it retained its high status. 3. The very idea that everything bad in both Europe and this world is done by bad Serbs is old, trite, banal, beaten and certainly not true. All Bosnian and Albanian atrocities aside, we should say that using the same old song about bad Serbs again and again is not funny and simply betrays the lack of ideas and good taste. But then, in Hollywood, seems like nobody even realizes where Serbia is and what the whole war was about. 4. The whole film again shows the certain pro-Democrat and anti-Republican sentiment. But, yes, this is Hollywood and in the films here the USA is shown like a creeping fascist regime, where people (even criminals) may be thrown into some drug-trafficking country and become the targets of some extremely brutal experience. This is funny, unreal and obviously shows off its libertarian origins. Finally, when will it be enough to make films in Prague? As if there are no other cities in Europe. Prague is nice, but as Ringo Starr once quipped, too many cakes will result in diabetes. Thankfully, Vin did not agree to participate in XXX 2. That one was enough. "},{"Title":"A true action pic stylized for its audience (teens)","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much of XXX can be seen as a homage to the James Bond franchise, we have the gadgets the stunts the M and Q characters, just a less suave attitude with Vin Diesel than with a Connery or Brosnan.  Here, Diesel is a stunt man sort of, and has three strikes against him, until Gibbons (Jackson) comes forth and brings him an opportunity to serve his country.  He agrees, since it gets him out of jail, and it pits him against a group called Anarchy 99 (the Vandals reference is nice amidst the usual clunk of dialogue. Nothing people haven't seen before; the stunts especially are one degree from going into parody ala Austin Powers territory.  But it's kept at just the safest enough level and it can be seen that a lot of work went into these stunts and effects in these action scenes.  Exciting, as long as you don't ponder it after it's over.  B+ "},{"Title":"the things Vin Diesel's gonna do for his country act in silly movies","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" xXx is basically another Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Xander Cage (Vin Diesel) is a muscle man hired by the government to be a secret agent. He goes around kicking booty and falls for Russian agent Yelena (Asia Argento).I guess that there's nothing wrong with the movie, per se. It's pretty fun, albeit improbable. It's just that I wouldn't recommend it to you as your first choice. I gotta ask is Vin Diesel ever going to act in anything other than movies that have him flexing his muscles? Actually, he did star in Saving Private Ryan. And of course, Asia Argento's father Dario is a famous horror movie director. "},{"Title":"Most people talk a lot.  Few are up for the moment.  Welcome to Anarchy 99.","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is the perfect movie. Sony has created the Anti-Bond. Every move Xander Cage makes is the exact opposite of what James Bond would do but with the same results. Everything this movie attempts is pathetic. The extreme sports, not selling out (by making a video game??), defiant hubris in the face of authority, every last thing. This is the perfect James Bond parody. Everything about the movie is James Bond except for the lead character. This review really isn't serving the movie justice at all. If I could, I'd go through the movie scene by scene. OK You talked me into it.Intro- Spy in tux using a gadget tries to escape from bad guys by running into a Rammstein concert(with pyrotechnics and body surfing). Big mistake James, you're in a tux. You stand out! Oh well, they kill the James Bond character and we're immediately introduced to......XANDER MOTHER F____NG CAGE. SOME SENATOR WANTS TO CENSOR VIDEO GAMES AND MUSIC??? XANDER'S GONNA STEAL HIS CAR FROM THE VALEY AND DRIVE IT OFF A BRIDGE. I know, you're bored. How about this- He has a parachute and jumps out before the car crashes. Doesn't appeal to you enough? He does it live on the World Wide Web via a Web cam.Also he doesn't drink anything except juices or vegan meals, but he thinks tattoo's and doing extreme stuff is pretty awesome. He is a non-smoker. Get with the times Bond James Bond! Would James ever punch Q in the face? I didn't think so.WATCH THIS MOVIE. It's #1 on my listmy list 1.XXX 2.Exit Wounds 3.Rambo(2008) 4.The Marine 5.Point Break "},{"Title":"James bond meets the X-games...","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" By Greg UrsicMention the word spy and for most people it conjures up British accents, tuxedos and martinis &#150; shaken, not stirred of course. While I've been a Bond fan for longer than I care to admit, let's be realistic for a moment; it's pretty hard to relate to a polished pseudo aristocrat who beds supermodels, battles supervillains and saves the world on a weekly basis. Where are all the regular Joe average superspies?Xander Cage is an attitude riddled adrenalin junkie who is always looking for the next big fix. His fun comes to an abrupt stop when his latest stunt catches the attention of the wrong person in the NSA and Xander gets shanghaied. It seems that a certain anarchist group, composed of earthy ex-Red Army regulars is intent on ushering in a new era, and suave, sophisticated spies stick out like, well, suave sophisticated spies. The NSA feels that this is a task that Xander, a tattooed delinquent, deemed to be the `best and brightest of the bottom of the barrel' would be perfect for. Well, with a few exceptions.With Schwarzenegger contemplating a run for Governor, and Willis finally being accepted as a `serious' actor, the Action Hero genre has been left bereft of a genuine successor. Enter Vin Diesel, a man of few words, who first popped up on Hollywood's radar when his indie film `Multi-facial', which he wrote, directed and starred in received great reviews at Caanes. Most importantly, Diesel caught the attention of Steven Spielberg, who cast him in `Saving Private Ryan' as Private Caparzo. His breakout role as Dominic Toretto in `The Fast and the Furious' (a film intended to showcase Paul Walker) proved his power as a box office draw and he was soon being hailed as the go to action hero for the next millennia (Revolution Studios is betting huge that he will be- they signed him to a three picture deal and will pay him $20 million for the first sequel).As Xander, Diesel is surprisingly low key &#150; he is pensive, humorous, growly and explosive when necessary - and there is no doubt that `XXX' is his vehicle. Diesel dominates every scene that he appears in with an understated cockiness, and those ever-bulging biceps. Asia Argento (daughter of horror meister Dario Argento) affects a Courtenay Love style persona &#150; her Yelena is tough, b*tchy, no nonsense and cold as ice. Yelena, like Xander, is edgy, rough, and quick-witted. The supporting cast, with the exception of Samuel Jackson as Xander's slick and slimy protégé, are largely unremarkable.The action sequences are for lack of a better word, extreme from the opening base jump (okay, technically it's not a base jump in the strictest sense of the term) with a twist sequence, to the amazing freestyle motocross sequence to the boarding, the stunts are amazing. I also appreciated the fact that neither the spies or the gadgets have much polish &#150; the Q equivalent in `XXX' is a total geek/frat boy wannabe whose gadgets lack subtlety, and are largely untested (XXX's retrofitted GTO requires a `Gadgets for Dummies' guide). There are several elements that hamstring the film however.The actors are constantly hemmed in by lackluster dialogue &#150; it doesn't matter how charismatic a character is, they are ultimately defined by their writing. There were no pithy catch phrases or witticisms &#150; a necessity for any action hero. There are also too many lulls in the film &#150; I appreciated the action sequences but repeatedly found myself getting bored with the filler in between. Also, the `secret' plot elements were far too obvious and easily divined. Finally, I was largely unimpressed with the FX used in several sequences (especially the avalanche).If you are looking to give the old gray matter and inject some excitement into your weekend, splurge on a matinee.  "},{"Title":"Why is Vin Diesel a star?","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"28 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am at a loss as to why Vin Diesel is considered something special. Sure, he was fine providing a voice for the underrated animated movie The Iron Giant, but in live action he isn't anything like what I would consider a leading man. Here, as in his other movies, he comes across as as an arrogant and somewhat dumb thug that repulses you. Even Stallone at his worst still gave his character enough believability that you could accept his actions.As for the rest of the movie... well, it was meant to be an update of the James Bond movies, but they only got the words, not the music. Sure there's an evil organization out to hurt the world, but it and its members are given paper-thin development and no personality. Sure, there are high-tech gadgets, but they are TOO cartoony, and are presented in a way that doesn't amaze or make you think they're cool. Sure, there are foreign locations, but they are shoved so way in the background that you wonder why they bothered to go on location. Sure, there are big and elaborate stunt sequences, but they managed to be directed and edited in a way that saps out ALL the excitement other directors and editors would have been able to keep in. I'm sure some other wag in these user comments has already said this... but this is more ZZZ than XXX. "},{"Title":"xXx","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I had always heard about this high action film because of the two leading stars, and it is an easy title to remember, but I had never actually seen it, so I was definitely interested to, from director Rob Cohen (Dragon The Bruce Lee Story, DragonHeart, The Fast and the Furious, The Mummy Tomb of the Dragon Emperor). Basically the US government have a list of people with criminal records and special skills who qualify as perfect for a special mission, and National Security Agent Augustus Eugene Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) has chosen who he thinks is the best of them. Xander 'X' Cage (Vin Diesel) is an extreme sportsman, notorious underground thrill seeker and sure fire adrenaline junkie, his attitude stinks so naturally he has no interest in Gibbons's proposal, but he is forced with the possibility of facing prison. His mission is to enter a world of crime and gather information about an Eastern European underground organisation called Anarchy 99, that others have failed to infiltrate, they are apparently trying to destroy the world. The group is led by Russia ex-soldier Yorgi (Marton Csokas) who has a grudge against authority and society in general, and obviously world politics, so naturally he wants to rid the world of it completely. X, or 'XXX' (Triple X) is getting closer to the villain via his apparent girlfriend Yelena (Asia Argento), and of course his no sense of fear of danger attitude, as well as his determination to get through situations come in very handy to defeat the enemy and save the day. Also starring Michael Roof as Agent Toby Lee Shavers, Danny Trejo as El Jefe, Richy Müller as Milan Sova, Tom Everett as Senator Dick Hotchkiss, The Karate Kid Part III's Thomas Ian Griffith as Agent Jim McGrath and Let Me Blow Ya Mind rapper Eve as J.J. Diesel obviously got his action man status from this film, after having many small parts, and he is relatively alright with his gruff demeanour, and Jackson does alright as his scar faced mentor, it is admittedly a rip off of James Bond and an excuse for just as many explosions, big landscapes and big stunts, but it doesn't try and grip you with a decent enough plot, but overall it is not a terrible spy action thriller. It was nominated the Razzie for Most Flatulent Teen-Targeted Movie. Okay! "}]