[{"Title":"like Evans himself, this documentary isn't as great as it thinks it is, but it is watchable throughout","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Robert Evans's book version of this documentary, The Kid Stays in the Picture, is still un-read by me. But I have read much about him from other movie books from the 70's, and so this film does illuminate certain aspects of him that I already knew- his huge ego, his drug addiction, his proclivity to lots and lots of women, and having some part in the more outstanding films of the 1970's. Sometimes with Evans himself narrating throughout two things become apparent as peculiarities that keep it from being great- 1) the filmmaker's style is rather repetitive and, aside from some flourishes of talent, isn't anything too grand for the material, and 2) the three sides to the story that Evans is quoted with at the beginning become rather blurred as one full-on nostalgia (for bad and good) comes out. What makes it captivating, however, is that Evans is the kind of guy who will be honest about being full of crap and will even call on himself for his past troubles. Rarely has one man's achievements gone neck and neck with his flaws, and let out in a filmic, grandiose style such as this.Evans is shown to have, basically, a lot of luck as someone getting into Hollywood (as many of these stories go). He starts out as a so-so actor and tries desperately to establish himself as a producer. He becomes more apart of the development side of the pictures, and ushers through Rosemary's Baby, Love Story, and even the Godfather to an extent. As his story includes the personal side (his rise and fall in the relationship to Ali McGraw, the cocaine, the other tabloid stuff), the other side of his professional accomplishments still gears in for room. By the end, one can see that the man has gone through enough to have his rightful reputation as Paramount's longest remaining producer, and will likely hold onto his ego of being the head-cheese kind of 'creative producer' so many directors like or dread till the grave. If anything, the film is actually too short, as at 93 minutes (a brilliant Dustin Hoffman imitation over the credits included) we only get glimpses that are further expounded in the book. Therefore its already subjective viewpoint becomes even more crunched into one all-too-simple story on such an interesting case study.The Kid Stays in the Picture, despite not being as terrific as the filmmakers might think it is by their sleek camera angles and typical interludes of montage, is as close to being as honest as it could be. Honest, in the sense that Evans doesn't hide much in his story and how his own way of speaking about it, in its deep-sounding and straight-forward Hollywood way, is what film buffs look for. He may have been and done a lot of things, but as he says at the end, I enjoy what I do, which most people can't say that they do. "},{"Title":"Stars, sleaze, sex - and something close to brilliance","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Admit it. You're only interested in seeing this film because you think it's an A-list answer to an E! Hollywood True Story episode. Stars. Sleaze. Sex. Who could ask for anything more? The gossip quotient notwithstanding (and there's an awful lot of it), this turns out to be a thoughtful and intelligent profile of a man who is among the most thoughtful and intelligent producers ever to have helmed a major Hollywood studio. His biography reads like the synopsis of a Harold Robbins potboiler - former garment industry executive is cast in a movie when Irving Thalberg's widow spots him at a swimming pool, launching him on a life of success and excess in the film industry. But, as KID makes abundantly clear, Evans' spectacular if unlikely career path owes far more to the well-established link between the manic depressive temperament and creativity than CARPETBAGGERS-type pulp fiction. His seemingly boundless reserves of energy, when constructively channelled, can create works of cinematic art; when employed in less salubrious ways, the self-destructive results usually end up in the National Enquirer. Evans comes across as an admirable albeit eccentric character who, despite devastating illnesses and a slew of professional and personal setbacks, still retains the wit, charm and high-octane enthusiasm that once propelled him to the top of the greased pole that is Hollywood. Evans is probably better known today for his cocaine conviction, blink-and-you-missed-it marriage to Catherine Oxenberg and the tell-all bestselling autobiography this documentary is loosely based on. While he would be the first to admit that his epically scaled lapses have been grist for the tabloid mill, Evans also deserves to be remembered as the man who midwived such classics as ROSEMARY'S BABY and THE GODFATHER and that definitive Chandlerian dissection of Los Angeles, CHINATOWN. Evans is direct and honest about the creative tensions that helped to shape all of these films, acknowledging that he played the grain of sand to Polanski and Coppola's oysters - trying to irritate those directors into producing pearls. His reminiscences about the hot-and-cold wars that were waged behind the scenes on these and other pictures underscore the collaborative nature of filmmaking - and expose as the nonsense that it is the widely accepted fiction of director-as-author. You'll get gossip aplenty but you'll also get insight in this is a warts-and-all portrait of a unique Hollywood personality, a kid who, deservedly, still remains in the picture.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fascinating","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The Kid Stays in the Picture is a must-see for any person who's interested in movies and their making. This funny and exciting documentary tells the larger than life story of Robert Evans, discovered by Norma Shearer swimming in a hotel pool in 1956, who went to become a ham actor and soon afterwards, an extremely successful producer, who took Paramount studios from 9th to first in Hollywood in less than a decade. The man behind legendary films such as The Godfather, Chinatown, Harold and Maude, Love Story, Marathon Man and Rosemary's Baby, Evans dated beautiful women (he was once married to Love Story star Ali MacGraw) and was obsessed with his goals (and he often succeeded, being responsible for some of the biggest hits of his time), what turned him Hollywood royalty and voted the world's most eligible bachelor. With one scandal involving his name, drugs and a murder, though, his career was ruined and he lost almost everything he had. But he came back, and The Kid Stays in the Picture explores his fascinating saga with the witty, cynical narration of Evans himself, never being too self-indulgent. Evans himself admits he was no angel. But then again, who is? Michael Moore's Bowling for Columbine deserved to win the Best Documentary Oscar back in 2002, but the absence of The Kid Stays in the Picture among the nominees is more outrageous than Evans' story itself. 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Glossy and Superficial, But Still Quite Interesting","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"       7 out of 10     It is hard to resist this documentary even though it seems more like self promotion.  The fact that this man has attained what others could only dream about makes it a must see itself.  Robert Evans certainly does seem to embody every stereotype one could imagine when they think of a Hollywood producer.  He is rich and suave, he wears big, tinted glasses, dresses in gaudy suits, hosts wild parties, dates beautiful women, and lives in a beautiful, serene Hollywood home.  You would think that he would almost have to be a caricature, but he isn't.  His stories involving famous Hollywood celebs, both past and present, could alone fill a movie if not several.     Of course that is the problem with the documentary.  It all seems a bit too Hollywood.  Everything seems a bit phoney and too far removed from the average person.  He seems, in a way, to have made a production out of himself.  The film, like the man, is very deliberate and highly glossy.  It depends almost exclusively on some very well transferred old photographs and elaborate stills.  At no time do we ever get someone else's viewpoint or perspective.  Evans shows no ability at having any self depreciating humor or humbleness.  His determination and gutsiness is inspiring yet it would have been nice to see Evans as a child and a little bit more on his upbringing.  Also the dialogue between him and his then wife Ali Macgraw seems really weird and only adds to the mythical quality of the thing.     Evans does all the narrating and proves to be quite a character and showman.  His ability to do different accents and voices is impressive.  The whole thing is very fluid and it gets you involved in a hypnotic sort of way.  You also gotta love his saying, which was taken from an old Chinese proverb Luck is when opportunity meets good preparation. "},{"Title":"a must-see for movie lovers","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  `The Kid Stays in the Picture,' a documentary about famed movie producer and studio head Robert Evans, begins like `The Great Gatsby,' a film Evans produced in 1974.  To the wistful strains of `What'll I Do?' playing in the background, the camera glides lovingly over the furnishings, pictures and memorabilia that adorn Evans' Bel Air mansion and estate.  The comparison is an apt one, for, like Gatsby, Evans was a wunderkind, a handsome young go-getter who knew early on the kind of life he wanted to lead and who willed himself to attain it.  With a combination of good looks, charm, ambition and just a bit of plain old-fashioned good luck, he managed to go from being a mediocre movie actor to becoming the head of Paramount Studios in the course of a mere decade.  And what a decade it was!  Evans had a major hand in not only lifting Paramount from ninth to first place among Hollywood's major studios, but in bringing such films as `Rosemary's Baby,' `True Grit,' `Love Story,' `Chinatown' and, of course, `The Godfather' to movie screens everywhere.`The Kid Stays in the Picture' is a dream-come-true for hardcore cinephiles, providing a fascinating behind-the-scenes glimpse into one of the true Golden Ages of Hollywood filmmaking.  Evans' story is, in fact, the story of that time, for truly he hobnobbed with virtually every one of the key players responsible for that era.  Evans' tale follows a fairly conventional arc for men of his type the ambitious kid with dreams of larger-than-life glory achieves meteoric success in the entertainment business only to have his ambitions dashed on the shores of rampant egotism, overconfidence and drug addiction.  In fact, Evans' life would make perfect fodder for a film of its own, as this documentary and the positive response to it demonstrates.  Evans himself narrates the film, and although he tends to be a bit easier on himself than an outsider might have been, he is still willing to chastise himself when he feels it's called for and to render some rather startlingly unflattering assessments of certain major players on the Hollywood scene.  He is, also, however, utterly devoted to those he feels have stuck by him through good times and bad, and he is not averse to lavishing praise on others when it is due.  One objection to Evans' narration is that he doesn't always speak with the utmost clarity, sometimes making what he says come out garbled and incomprehensible.As a piece of filmmaking, `The Kid Stays in the Picture' offers a kaleidoscopic array of stills, film clips and reenactments that reflect the temper and mood of the time.  Directors Brett Morgan and Nanette Burstein obviously pored through a wealth of material on the subject, culling from it a comprehensive, streamlined and fast-moving narrative that grips the audience with its humor, its sadness and its tribute to the indomitableness of the human spirit.  For if Evans' story is about anything, it is about how important it is for each individual to achieve his dreams and how equally vital it is for that same person, once he has fallen down, to pick himself up off the floor so that he can continue pursuing that dream.`The Kid Stays in the Picture' is a wonderful time capsule for those who love movies.  No true film fan should miss it.   "},{"Title":"An excellent telling of a great Hollywood story","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Documentaries are a dime a dozen, and I've seen my share.  Being the type of person who would watch a documentary on anything, I was excited to catch this film about a man who has had one hell of a career in Hollywood.  I knew I would find the subject matter interesting, but was completely surprised at how much I enjoyed the way the story was presented.The Kid Stays In The Picture is the story of Robert Evans, told in Evans' words and narrated by Evans himself.  His amazing career highs and lows are detailed in fantastic cinematic fashion, utilizing photographs and film clips from Evans' acting, then producing career while accompanied by Evans' enrapturing narration.  The stories told by Evans were so effective and interesting that it could have been overlaying a blank screen and would have riveting.  He is truthful, arrogant and most importantly, self-deprecating.  He isn't afraid to admit the mistakes he made in his career, which is a refreshing turn from so many self-serving documentaries. If anything, this film is worth watching for two scenes  When Evans tells the story of his near-suicidal moments that are harrowing in itself, but is accompanied by appropriate images from some of the films he produced.  The other is during the final credits, when you see Dustin Hoffman do an incredible and hilarious impersonation of Evans on the phone.  I certainly hope that Evans was proud of the way this documentary portrayed him, and should be commended in the way he portrayed himself.  --Shelly "},{"Title":"A REAL-LIFE CITIZEN KANE","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE (2002) **** Fascinating and wildly entertaining documentary by Nanette Burstein and Brett Morgen on legendary Hollywood film producer Robert Evans &#150; based on his notorious best-selling autobiography &#150; of his rise from poolside discovery by Norma Shearer as a fledgling B actor to his successful climb atop Paramount Studios upper echelon and responsible for green lighting many of The Golden Age of the Seventies blockbusters (i.e. `Love Story', `The Godfather', &  `Chinatown' to name three) to his disdain as an industry pariah involving cocaine and murder.  Evans' unique sangfroid mixed with charm, chutzpah and a movie lovers' contempt for those who &#145;just don't get it' wields a strong hold in his story and the wonderful cinematic ingenuity of making photo stills into diorama-like animation is used smartly as well as allowing its subject to pontificate without utterly destroying his self-made rakish image.  One of the best indie docus down the pike in some time and a valentine for those who like their gossip with popcorn. "},{"Title":"Robert Evans Celebrates Robert Evans, to the Benefit of Robert Evans","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Somewhere in this grating, self-congratulatory exercise in ego-mania is a fascinating documentary about one of the most talented and successful players in the history of Hollywood. By sealing it all up in a stiffing first-person bubble, though, Robert Evans and the film makers turn what could have been a great journey into the equivalent of being stuck on an airplane with someone who can't shut up about himself. All biographies have a point of view. I've never seen one, though, that insists on giving the viewer ONLY one perspective to the point that the main character is the only one allowed to speak, quoting other people in irritating (and in some cases racist) caricatures while continuously employing false modesty, name dropping, and hackneyed homespun quips meant to sound like hard-earned wisdom. They should have printed 15 copies of this film and passed them around to friends and family of The Kid in the title. Considering the flood of quality documentaries that have been released in the last decade, the general Viewing public deserves something better. "},{"Title":"The Eyes Stay Glued to the Screen","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  This is an exceptionally fine, creative documentary about the man who was behind most of the great films of the 70's and 80's. What an terrific use of still photos and music, done in such a way (and using a technique that seems to make some of the stills move and appear 3-D)as to make Ken Burns' style appear downright antique. For anyone who grew up with the movies, especially the great ones of the last 20-30 years, this is an absolute must-see.  "},{"Title":"A look into the life of a Hollywood legend.","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  This is an interesting documentary about one of Hollywood's legendary producers, Robert Evans.  Directed by Nanette Burstein and Brett Morgen, it mostly uses film clips from movies he produced at Paramount plus a narration taken from the audio cassette Evans made for his autobiography. There's so much material to draw on that it's impossible to really do justice to his life in just 90 minutes.  I wanted to hear more details about the films he made and the people he knew, not just a quick synopsis, but then I suppose that's what the book is for.   It would also have helped if they'd interviewed people like Jack Nicholson or the people who worked on the film productions, just to get another perspective.Some people have complained that Robert Evans is pleading for sympathy, having gone from wonder boy to disgraced druggie, but I thought he was simply asking for some understanding and some respect.  He seems to feel he was wrongly maligned, more than he deserved, for his drug use and troubles with the law, and I'd have to agree.  Abusing yourself is hardly news in Hollywood.Does Robert Evans have an ego?  Sure, but if I'd brought Chinatown and The Godfather to the screen, I would too.  You can tell there's a lot more to the man than just his films, but unfortunately, we only get to scratch the surface here.  "}{"Title":"irksome Tinseltown documentary","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The Kid Stays in the Picture tells the first-hand account of the life of Robert Evans, with narration from the audio version of his memoir. The title is in reference to the big break Evans received in the mid-1950s by studio head Darryl F. Zanuck when everyone else was against the inexperienced actor playing the lead in a film. From his short-lived on-screen career he quickly moved up the ranks to become a major Hollywood producer. What follows is ninety minutes of deep-voiced narration, a steady flurry of pictures upon pictures, and a consistent stream of namedropping. The first person narration has a vibe that doesn't let up that screams I love me, so you should too. As wonderful as Chinatown and other such films he was quote-responsible for are the flick feels a lot like a love note to him self for all to see. It's got wonderful pacing, but it feels so empty. Sure, it briefly abandons rule numero uno of the usual biopic, which is to leave out the bad parts and the real character flaws, but even those glimpses of humility are under-involving. There's just so little going on besides an old man looking back on those years he clawed his way up into the comfort of his own legacy. It's not as interesting as it should have been, even if it's as truthful as it can get. "},{"Title":"Fascinating for star-struck outsiders","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Not the spectacular, must-see, insightful bio of all time, but for people even remotely interested in the dream factory, this is killer stuff.At first, you have to be a little fascinated with the character himself (person is not an adequate term). It's amazing how some people in film can be a character all the time, even though they are not actors per se, and Robert Evans is quite a character.And herein lies the problem. We don't really know if Evans is putting on an act or if this is at all related to truth. Also, the narrative style, using still photographs instead of live footage for most of the running time, makes it look rather artificial.The film is entertaining at times and Evans is quite funny. Maybe I would have been more involved if he had done it as a live stage show. The stories about his relationships with directors are fascinating and are the most balanced parts of the whole thing (neither one of them looks the victor). Of course, knowing the back-story beforehand, you know who came on top.Look for a far more successful treatment of this subject in the documentary Brando. "},{"Title":"Biography Channel, Writ Large.","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Well, according to this biographical documentary, the producer Robert Evans has lived the life of an elevator, or maybe a toilet seat, with a couple of truly good highs -- Marathon Man, Chinatown, and others -- and some down periods involving cocaine, murder, and the loss of his beloved mansion in Woodland Hills.It's based on Evans' own autobiography, and he narrates this doc. One might expect it to be filled with self justification, along the lines of, Yes, I brought suit and left him destitute but it was never about the money. Instead, he's pretty generous with praise for his pals and surprisingly understanding towards those who have brought him down.I put quotes around the word understanding because what I mean is that he doesn't heap his calumny upon his undoers. He leaves them pretty much blameless. But I don't believe for a moment he understands them, or if he does he's not being frank about it. His wife, Ali McGraw, didn't leave him for Steve McQueen because Evans stayed away from home too long while working. No respectable Hollywood producer would include such a hoary cliché in a movie, unless John Wayne was the hero. How about, You're married to your job? As Evans himself says in the narrative, I was never psychiatrically oriented. Evans seems to have a decent sense of humor about himself. He can poke fun at his early acting efforts. Once you've achieved great success, you're at liberty to do that. If Picasso had once been a bicycle repairman he might have joked about how bad he was. Yet the role distance is there, even though Evans' narration undermines it with an excess of dramatization. There may always be tragedy just around the corner, but when you're hearing Evans tell you this in a voice that sounds like Rock Hudson's after chain smoking two packs of Gauloise, it remains less than convincing.The images reflect the volatility of his career, as does the music. At his height, living in his mansion, accepting awards, dating models, being interviewed while wearing a pair of tinted glasses whose color matches the tint of the pullover sweater he chose to wear that day, the cuts arrive con brio. Later, during the dark years of the late 1980s, the music turns mournful and melancholic, and there are dismal shots of Evans' deserted swimming pool with maple leaves scattered across the surface like Evans' wasted dreams, like his hundred-dollar bills.Some of it is not entirely believable. Depressed, Evans checks himself into some sort of sanatorium. He describes himself as being behind bars and his room is like a cell. He relates the story of his close escape from the goons that guarded the hallway. (He was picked up by his chauffeur.) What the hell is this -- The Betty Ford Clinic or The Snake Pit? He's a perceptive guy, no question about it, and had a string of good luck too. Life, though, has left him battered. The epilogue suggests he's made a successful comeback with movies like Jade and Sliver. That's arguable. But, to be perfectly honest, despite the suffering Evans has endured and now put on display, I'd have traded places with him at any point in his life and so would anyone else. "},{"Title":"ok","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Would have been much easier to watch if a They had some pictures that were actually STILL. Instead, the camera is constantly moving, every picture is moving, some are altered for a 3-d effect which becomes very annoying after a while. b many of the shots were reused over and over and over to where the second half the film is just shots we've already viewed. c Evans narration just gets tiresome after a while. I would have liked to see this exact same movie done by other people.Maybe the truth version would have been better (Evans three sides to every story, your side, their side and the truth). Have everyone but Evans narrate the story and see how different it would have been. With Evans doing it, it came off as pretentous and somewhat pompous. Unless you're in the biz or really want to be in the biz, I can't see how anyone could have really enjoyed this.  Average. "},{"Title":"But then again...too few to mention","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  It's the feelgood movie of the summer nearly fifty years of the luck,charm, horse sense, and above all intoxicating baloney of RobertEvans. Hollywood denizens will cluck their tongues and regret thatthey don't make 'em like they used to. (Mike DeLuca--polish upyour spats you're the Great White Hope.) Everybody else will bewooed by the Evans line of palaver--the sense that the great manis just an ordinary joe catapulted by fate into a world of babes,bucks and fabulous real estate that he cagily held onto longer thanany other producer by dint of his gambling sense, his eye fortalent, and his shrewd but oddly shape-shifting bottom line. Evansseems to transcend the world of contemporary mere mortals histake on how he kept Mia Farrow in a picture called ROSEMARY'SBABY seems like a freaky riff on a Brat Pack anecdote. Evans' mixof gold-chain cheese and a weird mousse of balls and good tastemakes him seem like a man from another century. For movielovers and/or Angelenos, the movie is akin to the hundred-proofpharmaceutical coke that spelled Evans' downfall the pitchman'sspiel is still intoxicating after all these years. "},{"Title":"Life has it's ups and downs","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" I was half way through with the new Hollywood issue of Vanity Fair when I came across the excerpt from Robert Evans new memoir Kid Nortorius. I had not heard of Robert Evans, but was fascinated enough to get a copy of The Kid Stays in the Picture to learn more.I was glued to the tube watching the story of a man who had the incredible luck to get noticed. You all know the story of how some actress was discovered selling malteds in some drugstore. Evan was put into The Sun Also Rises. Both cast and crew, Ernest Hemingway, Tyrone Power, and Ava Gardner included, attempted to have Robert Evans fired during production. Producer Darryl F. Zanuck refused, saying, The kid stays in the picture, thus leading to both Evans' long career as a producer and the title of his book, and this film.He knew he had no future as an actor, but he also knew that the power was in producing. he managed to get named a Vice President of Paramount in another stroke of luck. Then his talent took over and he is the man behind such memorable films as Rosemary's Baby, Love Story, The Godfather, Marathon Man, and his first as an independent producer, Chinatown. It is the story behind these films that is fascinating, especially the fact that he and Paramount were in on Love Story and The Godfather from the beginning - before they were even written! His story with directors Roman Polanski and Francis Coppola are equally fascinating.His own Love story with Ali McGraw is equally fascinating, though it ended in tragedy. But luck does a strange turn and tragedy really struck in the form of a Hollywood murder case where his name was mentioned. Not a suspect, just on the periphery, but it was enough to send him to the depths of hell - within a hair's breadth of suicide.It was his friends that brought him back to where he is today. Now, he is telling the rest of the story in a new Memoir, Kid Nortorious.If you love films as I do, then you really need to see this one to provide a back story to some of your favorites. hey, you probably should be buying his books as well. "},{"Title":"Entertaining - in a totally self-indulgent and self-serving way.","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Robert Evans is a Hollywood legend. For the good, for the bad and for the somewhere in between. The man is often portrayed as the guy that got lucky, but isn't that a bit unfair? He was only the oil that made the steel wheels go around - but in Tinseltown oil is king.He also had good taste and he got what he wanted. He made Francis Ford Copolla what he is today having - as this film makes clear - made three utterly offbeat flops and a b-picture.He is more than a row of credits - including producing the best film that was ever made in The Godfather. Or so IMDb.com says anyway. Did anyone see a blockbuster in a gangster film before it was actually made? No, but Evans did.This production uses the (droning) voice of Evans and a load of cuts-and-paste animation's plus old film clips. There are times when the clips are probably nothing to do with the subject in hand. London police holding back the crowds? Which crowds? Or does this not matter?Evans shows that he can actually act a bit despite being a failed actor. Just a bit. Enough to get the money and to persuade the money guys that they are not hearing the sound of toilets flushing. Even though they sometimes did. Naturally this has nothing to do with Evans. The Cotton Club was expensive because he lost control of his original lead and lost control of his director.Sometime after this someone ended up dead. Somehow people started to falsely tie Evans in to this death. He was never even a suspect - but there had to be more to it than he is telling here. I know a short change when I hear one!He had loads of friends. From Bob Hope to Jack Nicolson, stopping off at Paul Newman. He even had them appear at his benefit gig - some sort of trade off to stop him going to prison for dope dealing. I won't spoil the film by giving the full excuse here - but he should have served time.It is hard to feel sorry for Evans because he had loads of women (he was a good looking guy), loads of dope (you should here the excuses made here!!!) and loads of money. He did work hard as well. What drags this production down a couple of notches is that Evans never lets anyone else speak. It is my version or no version and is not really a documentary in my book. More a long drone - although the subject makes up for it a little bit.Evans has gone the way of all flesh. He has got older, he has got fatter and he has got lazier. But he has had his day in the sun and that is what counts. His fifteen minutes are up and the party is over. He lived the American dream and emerged the other side - if only just.This film demonstrates that hard work and luck are no substitute for talent, but they are the next best thing.. "},{"Title":"Interesting but off-putting","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The life and (hard) times of producer Robert Evans. It chronicles his start in show business, his rise, his downfall and comeback. He provides the narration for pictures and videos taken throughout his career. Also, they try something different with the stills here...the backgrounds (or foregrounds) are real and moving while the characters stay still. Some people might like it...I found it incredibly annoying...it kept pushing me out of the picture.Also the film doesn't add up to much. There's precious little insight to the movies he produced (except for Rosemary's Baby) and even less insight to his character. I left the theatre still not knowing much about him.Still, I enjoyed it. Some of the pics are incredible and there are some very funny observations (he said he never understood what Chinatown was about!). So it's worth seeing for bits like that. Otherwise it's nothing much. "},{"Title":"Great documentary","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Great documentary on the life of legendary Hollywood producer Robert Evans, who produced such classics as The Godfather (1 and 2), Love Story, Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown, as well as The Cotton Club and Marathon Man. Narrated by Evans himself and based on his autobiography, the movie gives a great insight into what happens behind the scenes in Hollywood, and how careers rise and fall. Some of the anecdotes and incidents are quite amazing.A must-see for anyone who is interested in the history of cinema, especially '70s cinema. "},{"Title":"Memories shared serve each differently","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Womens fashions executive-turned-failed actor-turned movie studio chief Robert Evans remembers his life, perhaps narrating from his source autobiography in a tough-guy style filled with ego-inflated rhetoric and purple prose. Although Evans knows the movie business inside-out, and worked with or crossed paths with some of the biggest names of the 1960s and '70s, this film is about him...and he's not nearly as interesting as the celebrities who starred in his productions. Although mentioned as his friends, the personal troubles of Roman Polanski, Jack Nicholson or Francis Ford Coppola are never mentioned--not even in passing, nor as a reflection on how their scandals may have had an effect on Evans' life. Redundant documentary is both sketchy and flabby; it has some interesting film clips and soundtrack choices, but it doesn't present a well-crafted overview of Tinsel Town. This is the Cliff's Notes version of Hollywood via Robert Evans, Big Shot. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Hollywood epic","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Legendary Hollywood producer Robert Evans narrates the story of his own life. His movie career started in 1956 at the poolside of the Beverly Hills Hotel. He gets a few movie roles. In 'The Sun Also Rises' (1957), Ernest Hemingway telegrams Darryl F. Zanuck to get rid of Evans with most of the cast's support. Zanuck proclaims The Kid Stays in the Picture. And anybody who doesn't like it can quit. After an unimpressive acting career, he joins Charlie Bluhdorn whose company Gulf+Western Corporation purchased the failing studio Paramount Pictures. After a string of films such as Rosemary's Baby, Love Story and The Godfather, it had become the biggest studio. He then goes on to produce Chinatown after which his marriage to Ali MacGraw ends. It's also the start of the darker times. He starts doing cocaine. Some film failures such as 'The Cotton Club', and being connected in the murder of Roy Radin would send him out of the studio that he rebuild.The stories are better than fiction. The name dropping and the movie connections are epic. It starts with Mia Farrow and Frank Sinatra. Through it all, there is the gruff voice of Robert Evans. It's hypnotic. As he falls down the rabbit hole, it becomes even personal. The addition of his movies to portray his life gives such a surreal touch. It is movie magic. One also has the sense that this is an old man telling his tales. Like all such instances, one must take these stories with a grain of salt. It is nevertheless epic. "},{"Title":"Robert Evans he's STILL trying to sell himself, and his memories...","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Robert Evans stars in, narrates KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE - a documentary about the career of Mr. Evans.Mr. Evans' career in the entertainment business started with noted actress, Norma Shearer, asking Mr. Evans if he wanted to portray her husband, in an upcoming film.A story like this - a story like that of Mr. Evans' life, can only happen in one place; Hollywood.KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE follows Evans' career, and, just as promoting the products he's made, so does Mr. Evans deliver a documentary that's more public relations, than anything else.To tell one's own story inevitably means you're going to gloss over certain events, while building up others. For example, Mr. Evans' 7 marriages are barely mentioned, save for that to Ali McGraw.But, that glossing over 'details' can't really be held against him. The film business is all about illusions. While Mr. Evans has been involved with 'hits,' not all of them are of the high quality of GODFATHER. He also produced SLIVER. It did make money, but, no one would put these two projects in the same category.But, making a 'successful' picture means it made money - having it ALSO have good response is a bonus, but, not the major point of making a film.Mr. Evans is a beloved character, still, in Hollywood. With his square-framed glasses, his swept hair, Mr. Evans IS a character, both literally, and figuratively. He's a Sammy Glick. As the saying goes, there's no such thing as bad press, so goes this film. It comes off more as a CV - a reumé, than, an honest, fair, no-hole barred telling of Mr. Evans' business life. Even as the end-credits role, we're given an impression of Mr. Evans, by Dustin Hoffman, in which 'Bob' speaks in that oily, faux-charming way, that is such an image of what many believe to be a 'Hollywood insider.'Like any resumé, the film's last shot is of Mr. Evans' most current (at the time this film was made) projects financial standings.As long as you take this story with a bit of disbelief, it's harmless. The memories of a Hollywood player, filtered through ones own recollections. "},{"Title":"One man's story","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" This documentary, in which movie mogul Robert Evans narrates the story of his own life, begins with a quote from his book in which he declares that everyone has their own truth. The assertion is pertinent; for while his is an entertaining story, the film is limited by the fact that it lacks external perspective. Evans was a movie star who became an acclaimed producer; his reputation suffered after a cocaine bust; and then, bizarrely, crumbled after someone was murdered after an attempt to sell access to him ended disastrously. Evans was not personally involved in any of the dealings that led to this death; but his name was associated with the crime for the seven years it took to resolve, in which time his name crumbled to mud. He suffered mental health problems but returned to the business. This dramatic life story is certainly entertaining; but the absence of any take on events other than Evans's own is limiting, especially given his preference to narrate events as if he was Philip Marlowe. The kid knows how to tell a story; but whether it's the whole story is anyone's guess. "},{"Title":"Film storytelling as it's supposed to be done","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" If you're interested in watching a fantastic balance of straight-up narrative and stunningly executed cutting-edge media slinging, this is it.This film is so much more, of course; the story is compelling on various levels; the human-interest side, certainly. But also the inside scoop on period Hollywood fame-surfing.I need to know Who, in the end, is really creatively responsible for this film's look and feel? I want to shake his or her hand.And, finally, the film ends elegantly. Few films do this. Maddeningly, this tends to be especially true of films that excite by daring to lunge out into fantastic creative spaces as this one does. They wind up being described at parties thusly; Nice premise and early execution, but peters/cops out at the end.This film doesn't cop out. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Vivid approach to documentary film-making with a dynamic subject","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The rather astonishing career of whiz-kid studio head Evans is profiled in this flashy documentary. Evans narrates the film himself (in recordings taken from his audio-book version of his autobiography of the same name as this film) as film clips and enhanced still photos parade across the screen. He wastes no time on his own origins prior to his film career, beginning with his discovery in a swimming pool by legendary Hollywood actress Norma Shearer. His brief career in films is depicted (the title of this documentary comes from a mandate of Darryl F. Zanuck's referring to Evans' role in The Sun Also Rises after murmurings of his possible firing began to escalate.) He is then shown taking the reins of an almost defunct Paramount Pictures and working towards making it a top studio again. The roller-coaster ride continues as Evans faces drug problems and a troublesome connection to a murder. Evans has an ego that outdoes many of the most driven men in the movie business. His persona is larger than life, even more so in this documentary that has been put together based on material in his autobiography. The director never even bothers to include anyone else's take as Evans surges forward with his own commentary on his life and times. His foul-mouthed delivery may be off-putting to some viewers, but it's all part of his take-no-prisoners attitude. The film is beautifully put together with wonderful and inventive use of old photographs and plenty of rare footage from various sources (including some long gone talk shows.) The man's gloriously beautiful home is given a showcase as well and serves as home base for his many travails. Character-revealing anecdotes are provided about several folks including Mia Farrow and Ali MacGraw (who he hilariously refers to as Snotnose.) Most amazing of all is the story of how he used a 20 minute self-produced film to convince the money men of Gulf-Western to not shut down Paramount when he was in the midst of trying to turn it around. As enjoyable as it is, it is hardly a fully accurate view of the man and he admits as much at the beginning when he states that there are three sides to every story, Your side, my side and the truth. Oddly, he leaves out some of his marriages (especially the bizarre and brief union with Catherine Oxenberg) and notes The Fiend Who Walked the West as his last film appearance when it was actually as a loathsome cad in The Best of Everything. (Interestingly, one of the pieces of artwork from Louis Jourdan's apartment in that film hangs in Evans' house now!) In any case, whether it's one-sided or not, it's a fascinating glimpse into the life and career of this maverick producer who contributed more than a few classics to Hollywood's history. "},{"Title":"That metallic sound you hear throughout the film...","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" ....is Robert Evans' balls clanking together. The man is simply a force of nature, and the film does a good job of telling his story. I'd recommend you also pick up the book--even better the audio version read by Evans himself--which covers a number of subjects that the book leaves out. The book gives more details about his relationship with Henry Kissenger, his marriage to Phylis George and the financial bath he took on the movie Black Sunday. The book also goes into more detail on his friendship with Jack Nicholson. Evans is an American original. He's just a one-of-a-kind character, and the sort of maverick that today's business and formula driven Hollywood could use more of. Obviously the film (and the book) gives his life the spin he wants to put on it--like him taking credit for editing The Godfather. To hear him tell the story, Coppola's original cut was unwatchable and it took his touch to make it into the classic it became. That's the nature of all autobiographies, though, and can't really be considered a flaw in the film (or the book). Anyway, I'm a sucker for films about the movie industry which made me like this even more. Just a very entertaining and well made movie about a fascinating individual. "},{"Title":"Letting Hollywood live","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  It would be easy to criticise this documentary as a self-indulgent superficial exercise in egotism, but only if you choose the disengaged cynical view of the film. If you can alternatively sit back and enjoy an autobiographical Hollywood fairytale described by a seasoned storyteller who has been and there done it, who knows both the ugliness and the magic of movie-town, USA, you're in for a treat.The gloss, the glitz, the joy and self-recrimination, it's all seldom been so intimately communicated in film. Dismiss any notion that it's vapid story-light Entertainment Now celebrity pap and rent it out.8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Robert Evans allowed us to experience many great stories. Turns out the best of them was his own.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  The Kid Stays In The Picture plays a lot like an E! True Hollywood Story, chronicling the rapid rise,fall, and rise of producer Robert Evans, but with a few crucial differences First off, it's much prettier, with images flying around the screen, bringing the past completely to life. Second, it's narrated by Evans himself, in his own cool, croaky voice, so it doesn't go straight for the pity factor, with people he knew providing their own dark revelations about his lifestyle. He really gets into the telling of his own life, and just amazes you with all that he's been through. Here's a guy whose whole life has been about making movies, and he's here to tell you about how he fired Francis Ford Coppola four times while making the Godfather, and how his life left him for Steve McQueen. He's seen the entire scope of life love, despair, joy, frustration, relief. It's just so enthralling hearing him narrate his story and see scenes from his movies paralleling them in eerie symmetry. It never actually takes itself to seriously, and you get the feeling that this guy doesn't regret his life at all. The stories he tells are pure Hollywood He talks about the time he had to sell a movie at Cannes with a poster and nothing else, and then goes on to speak of when Jack Nincholson got him back his house. He doesn't take the easy way out and make anyone the villain, he just creates a cast of characters that come and go in the story. It's a memoir, really. And it might be the best story he's had a part in. "},{"Title":"The Siamese Cat","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE is a mediocre documentary.  It's mostly a combination of archive footage and 70s music spliced in with the occasional shot of a statue at Bob Evans' house.  As for Bob, he is certainly accomplished a true go getter in every sense of the word.  This man has drive, talent, excitement everything that puts the H in Hollywood.  Nonetheless, the film is biased and obviously packaged like a Bob Evans feature (see JADE or SLIVER).  The directors skim his divorce with Ali McGraw and do a inadequate job of examining his cocaine abuse.  In other words, when you want insight, they give you a post card.  As a result, if you ask me, Is it hard to find a good documentary these days? I respond,You bet your ass it is!       "},{"Title":"Fun if not totally believable doco..","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  With a voice straight out of Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas, it's hard to take anything Evans says seriously.A great trip back through the Golden Age of Hollywood when movies were more than just Internet Campaigns (no offence) and media blitzes.A nice little doco that reminds us why we watch movies in the first place.7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A brilliant piece of work","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  I'd neither remembered nor cared about Hollywood's Robert Evans. I wondered why anyone would bother to make a documentary film about him. Well Morgen & Burstein have done all moviegoers a big favor by digging up and putting together this film. It's amazing what talented film-makers can do with a simple rags-to-riches and (again) rags-to-riches story. The narration by Evans himself fits beautifully into the whole marvelous mosaic. I loved it.  "},{"Title":"The Real Deal, Kiddo","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  This beautifully shot, poetic documentary is amazing, especially given its source material, the guilty-pleasure-ridden book of the same name. Evans's life floats in front of us like a dream.  Though his spotty track record is basically glorified, his film-noir type narration is so infectious, the viewer cannot help but be sucked into his story.  If nothing else, it is a good lesson in persistence. "},{"Title":"A stirring story","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Robert Evans is the last of a dying breed. The kind of Hollywood mogul who calls women `broads' and hands out his phone number with the caveat `I'm only seven digits away, baby.' In other words, a real character. His life is the subject of a new documentary directed by Brett Morgan and Nanette Burstein, based on his autobiography. It's an stirring story. Evans was offered his first movie role by Norma Shearer who liked the way he looked in a bathing suit as he lounged by the pool at the Beverly Hills Hotel. He rose from b-actor status to become head of production for Paramount Pictures, putting films like The Godfather, Love Story and Chinatown into production. He led a fairy-tale life &#150; married to a movie star, living in a Beverly Hills mansion, hanging out with Jack Nicholson &#150; until bit by bit his Hollywood dream turned into a nightmare. His films started losing money; he was kicked off his beloved Paramount's lot; his wife left him for Steve McQueen, and he started using drugs. His high-rolling life unravelled and it seemed he'd never eat lunch in Hollywood again. But to paraphrase the title, the kid stayed in the picture, and has lived to tell the tale. Evans narrates the film without a hint of self consciousness, and entertainingly mimics everyone from Ali McGraw to Roman Polanski. It's an absorbing look at a complicated, resilient man. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Entertaining beyond belief!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  I was thrilled by this great documentary chronicling the story of the  bigger-than-life producer Robert Evans.  Great pacing and some clever photo effects illustrate how Evans life was just as intriguing as most of the movies he'd produced (not the Godfather but certainly Popeye). And just when you thought things couldn't get any stranger in his story? Goddamn right they do, right up until the very end. I mean how many people break up Frank Sinatra's marriage, fire Francis Ford Coppola from the Godfather AND lose their wife to Steve McQueen all in one life time, let alone within a five year span?  Only one man. Bobby Evans. Can the story get any better? I wouldn't be writing this if it didn't.  With Evans himself narrating, along with some juicy photos and a great soundtrack, this documentary is gold. And the archive footage is straight from Evans' personal stash. Was it worth it? You bet your sweet cheeks it was.   "},{"Title":"Simply Fascinating","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  What an incredible story this man's life is it should be a movie.  And here we are with The Kid Stays in the Picture.  A documentary, but not of the Discovery Channel type (not that there's anything wrong with those).  This documentary with its moving photographs, hip soundtrack, and kinetic pacing, will absolutely suck you in.  The rise and fall and ultimate redemption of Hollywood Producer Robert Evans is simply fascinating.  And the fact that he narrates his own story makes his tales even that much more rich.  The highlight for me hearing how Robert Towne's script for Chinatown was absolute Chinese.  It made no sense to anyone who read it.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood Shuffle","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  The team of Burstein/Morgen has delivered one of the most interesting documentaries to come down the pike in recent years. This synopsis of the life of producer Robert Evans (narrated smartly by Evans himself) is a neatly entertaining little study of life-love-sex-drugs-and moviemaking in 1960's-1990's Hollywood told from a truly between-the -sheets perspective.The final credits roll over Dustin Hoffman doing a hilarious impression of Evans...and William Atherton (yup...THAT William Atherton) doing some 30's-inspired singing that should earn him his cabaret license post haste.  "},{"Title":"Paramount's Greatest Hits  The '70s","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  What a surprisingly fun, unconventional movie! THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE documents the rise (ROSEMARY'S BABY) and fall (THE COTTON CLUB) of '70's mondo-producer Robert Evans. This is no static talking heads and cut & paste job that most non-fiction films employ; it's a artful collage of creatively blended still photos with new and imaginative backgrounds, original Super-8 film footage, classic tunes from that era (Elton John, Steely Dan), and long-lost television clips from obscure, forgotten talk shows, all narrated by Evans himself in a deadpan and gruff yet earnest tone that reminded me of Johnny Depp's voice-overs in FEAR & LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS.Anyone who likes Hollywood-insider movies like THE PLAYER and GET SHORTY will love this documentary . TKSITK reveals the origins of classics like CHINATOWN and THE GODFATHER, and why THE COTTON CLUB was doomed from the start. And a good deal of Evans' personal life is presented, like how his relationship with LOVE STORY's Ali MacGraw was broken by Steve McQueen's THE GETAWAY, and how a drug deal gone bad and a Hollywood murder landed him in Movie Jail for a decade.If nothing else, TKSITP contains dozens of movie clips, and part of the fun is figuring out what movies they're from.8/10 "},{"Title":"Further evidence that the Oscars are unrelated to excellence","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  If you want an Academy Award for best documentary, you'd be advised to avoid making such a wonderful and creative film that audiences forget they're watching a documentary.  This is the problem with Kid Stays in the Picture.  It sets an entirely new standard for documentary film making through use of stunningly simple but highly effective three-dimensional handling of flat imagery (e.g., still photos).   My favorite example of this is the wisp of smoke that appears to be coming from a cigarette in the hand of someone in a photo.  I'm certain that most audience members won't even notice such details (of which there are many); rather, audience members will simply have a feeling that they're watching real-time action.But there's more to this film than a creative and brilliant approach to documentary film making.  It's the story -- the terrific yarn-of-a-life -- of Robert Evans.  Since seeing the film, I've read Evans' book (on which the film is heavily based) and I've listened to the unabridged audio version of the book (read by Evans himself, similar to his narration of the film).  I found all to be fascinating, but the film has something that might have been lacking in the book  thoughtful editing by someone other than Evans.  (I still think the book is worth a read, or better yet, have a listen to the tale told by the man himself.)So, why didn't the film get nominated for an Academy Award?  Hollywood insiders may conclude that Evans made too many enemies during his many years in the business.  I have no doubt that Evans made plenty of enemies (as do most great executives, as well as most people who manifest any form of greatness), but I think there's a better explanation for the absent nomination.  Paradoxically, the film's strength is in this regard its weakness  it's so good that people forget it's a documentary; but because they're conscious of the fact that it's not a traditional feature film, they don't quite know how to categorize it.  I'm no historian of the Oscars, but I suspect that films that don't clearly fit a single category have always had trouble getting recognized.This is a great film, and will most certainly be used in documentary film-making classes for years to come.  But you definitely do not need to be a documentarian or even a film-buff to love this movie.  It's just a whale of a great tale.Thank you Robert Evans, Nanette Burstein, and Brett Morgen!  I look forward to more from all of you! "},{"Title":"Faraway, So Close!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  It's something of a scandal that this has been given a wide cinematic release. As a `film' it is unworthy of such a thing on all levels. Do I detect an increase in the amount of documentaries that are given cinematic releases - pushed as `events'? It's a pity that for every Nick Broomfield, there's a `One Day In September' (seemingly designed to be light entertainment for Clancey readers; loving recreations of the final `shoot out' - and shot through with an appalling bias; check Edward Said's condemnations, first published in The Guardian newspaper). Here there are a couple of Lynchian flourishes (slow tracking through the beautiful-but-sinister front room of the protagonist, ominous rumbling on the soundtrack) but that's about it in terms of `cinema'. In terms of story, it's also something of a whitewash; in a timely fashion, even the `official version' of the truth doesn't make much sense. Plus there are things that can't be true (Evans claiming he had to woo Polanski to Hollywood for Rosemary's Baby) and are highly questionable (Evans basically claiming he was the brains behind The Godfather).The redeeming feature is the rare footage Polanski working on set, a Mike Nichols-directed 10 min promo that Evans used to ensure that Paramount didn't fire him and an amazing Hoffman improvisation on the set of Marathon Man. Hoffman does an unfunny comedy turn as Evans 20 years hence (ie in 1996) and gets EVERYTHING right - health probs, divorce, loss of business contacts etc.Titles at the end tell us that Evans has bounced back (shades of Alan Partridge?) and lists some of the most forgettable and unsuccessful films of recent years (Jade, Sliver...) to prove this. Then it says that Evans suffered a heart attack while pitching a film idea to Wes Craven! WES CRAVEN! And that he joked that There's never a dull moment around here while lying on the floor in agony. I mean...The only lesson is that talentless wannabes in the right place at the right time with the right people can facilitate something worth doing... but even then you get the sense that Evans was too useless to prevent Coppola making The Godfather in the way he did (anyone else would have of that mindset), evidenced by his overseeing of The Cotton Club and its disastrous postproduction and reception. Not only that, but the Evans films, as Time Out says of Love Story, were dated even before they were released... so he's not even worthy of the title hipster. Don't get me wrong, I'd be the first to work the bar with the man himself for several hours - and that's why the film fails we don't get the tarnished Golden Boy of Hollywood's great, last hedonistic period, rubbing a Gatsby sheen onto jaw-dropping anecdotes (of which there are many). We get someone with a hang-over delivering a CV. The makers need to check the rightly-famous 1980s BBC documentary on Orson Welles. People are likeable, life is intrinsically exciting. subordinating film to that is the right decision at times, rather than feeling the need to recreate it.Some of the film seems heavily indebted to Biskind's must-read gossipslurge Easy Riders, Raging Bulls. "},{"Title":"Somewhere between the gutter and the stars","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" A truly wonderful movie and a great exploration of a man who, like a crack addict going cold turkey, just wants 'one more hit'.To hear Bob's croaky tones over the soundtrack brought tears to my eyes.Yeah, he was no saint, and to fair he never tries to make himself out to be one. But boy did he get f***** over by a lot of so-called friends, and he still came back fighting, hungrier than ever.I feel it is a great travesty that the movie has not been nominated for the Best Documentary Oscar this year. But this is a film that will find its own devoted audience. "}{"Title":"And a good job, too!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Tremendously enjoyable; my only misgiving about this is that I wouldn't take a non-film buff date to it. Evans' honesty about his foibles and failings is refreshing, but the breakneck pace of this film puts that in less focus than the book. A pity this got overlooked by the Academy, but Evans probably still has sufficient enemies.. Innovatively shot (bringing stills to life) and never less than entertaining, it is naturally rather more compressed than the book, but if you've read it, it does it justice. If you haven't, watch this AND buy the book! The man's certainly a survivor. Oh, and don't get up and rush out when the credits roll - there's a treat awaiting.  "},{"Title":"Serendipity?","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  The casual viewer of the life of Bob Evans, a man who spent most of his working life as a successful Paramount Pictures executive and creative producer would say that he was the kind of man who could accidentally fall into a cesspool and emerge with two fistfuls of cash.	That casual observer would be correct.  Evans was born connected, good looking and charismatic.  What the casual observer might not know, however, is that Evans is also visionary, intelligent, hard working and committed.   His sharp dress and looks belie his New York City vulgar idiom, something that shaped his overall persona.  	This beautifully realized memoir is a must- see for any Hollywood aficionado.  Evans narrates it in a natural, unaffected way, one can imagine, the way he would tell you across an intimate dinner table, making you wince and chuckle along the way.  His few miscalculations in life, notably marrying a working female actor (something we are warned not to do) and getting into the drug scene, albeit briefly, when it was in vogue and thus falling prey to the voracious media monster, can easily be forgiven.  The man, after all, gave us much more than we could possibly have given back to him, many years of top-flight entertainment.  We leave this Kid in his picture saluting him and wishing him well, especially those of us who are ebb-tide filmmakers some miles outside of the inner circle.   He lived the life we could only have dreamed. "},{"Title":"3.5 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  This documentary is based on the autobiography of Robert Evans, the head of Paramount during its rise in the late 1960's and early 1970's, with films like Rosemary's Baby, Love Story, The Godfather, and Chinatown.The film begins with a quote There are three sides to every story my side, your side, and the truth. And no one is lying. Memories shared serve each one differently. This film, being based on his autobiography and narrated by Evans himself, is clearly his side. This makes it less objective than one normally expects documentaries to be, but also way more entertaining.When the film starts in the mid-1950's, Evans was already doing very well as an executive in the Evan-Picone women's clothing company. He was poolside in Beverly Hills when he was discovered by Norma Shearer, who decided he was the right person to play her late husband, Irving Thalberg, in the film Man of a Thousand Faces. Suddenly he became an actor on the west coast in addition to being a businessman on the east coast.Next up was a key role in The Sun Also Rises, but Ernest Hemingway and a number of the other important people involved in making the film demanded that Evans be fired. The producer, Darryl Zanuck, arrived on location, where Evans had been practicing bullfighting for several months, and announced that the kid stays in the picture. Suddenly Evans realized that he really wanted to be a producer, so he could be the person who has that kind of power.Evans' rise to the top is quite amazing. Only about 10 years after this pivotal event, he was running Paramount and was involved (instrumental, to hear him tell it) in some of the biggest films of the time.The way Evans narrates the film is highly entertaining, both because of the actual content but also because you're always wondering just how much of what you're hearing is really true. But somehow he manages to weave enough self-deprecating words in amongst the self-congratulating ones to make you like him, in spite of his faults.The film contains very little if any newly filmed material. It consists mostly of news footage, clips from films, and still pictures, with narration by Evans throughout. The handling of the still pictures was particularly interesting, because the foreground parts of the pictures were made to seem to float in a three-dimensional way above the backgrounds, making them far more alive and interesting than they could have been.I highly recommend that you make an effort to see this film. And if you don't normally like documentaries, this one will change your mind.Seen on 8/29/2002.  "},{"Title":"Man, that guy can spin a tale...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Bob Evans starts off the movie by saying there are three sides to every story My Side, Your Side, and The Truth and how accurate he is.Granted, a good deal of this movie is Evans' self-flattering version of his rise and fall in Hollywood, but damn, it's entertaining.  He is a fantastic raconteur, and five minutes into the movie, it didn't matter to me whether he was lying or telling the truth.He touches on some landmark films in his career, like Rosemary's Baby, Love Story, Bonnie and Clyde, and of course, The Godfather.Most of the film uses stills, but they do so in a unique way, that never takes you out of the flow of the story.  Once you walk out of the theatre, you'll run right out and buy the book on tape (Evans narrates it himself, and it is what is excepted for the film)Pretty good execution of a usually dry format (documentary) "},{"Title":"Hollywood History 101","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Extraordinarily entertaining and somewhat of a spectacle.  Robert Evans was at one point considered the King of Hollywood and if ever there was someone that so completely fit the image of what we've come to think of as the Hollywood Mogul, then this was and is the man.  A absolute one of a kind character  - this doc. takes you a great little ride while giving one a glimpse back to the second Golden Age of Hollywood.  Engrossing and enigmatic.   "},{"Title":"Do you love Behind the Music and True Hollywood Story too?  Then you'll like this...","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" ...mostly cause the narrator uses the F and S words (wow, I feel silly saying that, like I'm 12 or something).  Imagine hearing Jim Forbes (narrator from BtM) say that on VH1.This was my first trip to the theater to see a documentary.  I was thinking, should I just wait til it comes out on video and watch it like any other Biography episode?  But I'm glad I made the trip.  First of all, they took this guy who's had a pretty up and down life.  We have all heard about Robert Evans' failed marriage to Ali MacGraw and the crazy-ness that came from that but there were so many other interesting things that happened.  I have to say, I have always thought of Francis Ford Coppola is a jackass who thinks he can just pawn away his bad movies by saying I needed the money, but seeing this movie has made me see that he's even more of a turkey then I thought.  It's pretty cool to see someone stickin it to him when the rest of the world thinks he's this amazing guy.  Its pretty funny to see too, that his greatest film, The Godfather was finished in his eyes, but Evans forced him to add more to it.  I almost wish that he left it alone just so that we could see the way he wanted to 'f-word' it up.  Then we would all see what a loser he is (hehe).  And how cool that Robert Evans actually narrates it himself.  And need I mention the crazy-cool way they showed the pictures?  Amazing to say the least!  Not something that should be missed on the big screen.  I'm definitely glad that I got a chance to see it in the theater instead of waiting for the video.  I tell you though, it makes you want to read the book, so if you yearn for more details, but hate to read, maaaaaybe this tickle of a movie isn't for you.  Robert Evans, the coolest guy I don't know.  "},{"Title":"Glitz, Glamour, and Then Some","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  The Kid Stays In the Picture tells the larger-than-life story of Robert Evans, the New York garment businessman who went to Hollywood to become an actor, then head of Paramount Studios.  Evans himself narrates this documentary, letting us into his world of fame and fortune, through the highs and lows of his illustrious career.  I found it very interesting for a documentary.  I enjoyed the animated photo graphics.  What's more, Evans has a lot of fascinating stories to tell, from behind the scenes of such movies as Rosemary's Baby and The Godfather.  For a life more interesting than most, you can't beat The Kid Stays In the Picture! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully evocative and informative","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  A beautifully directed and photographed tribute to an authentic legend, which does not contain a single conventional interview shot originally for the film, only archival footage and a tour de farce closing-credits impersonation by devotee Dustin Hoffman. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Documentary","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE is a documentary that I was told by the only other patron seeing the film with me that received a twenty minute standing ovation at Sundance.  I'm not a big fan of the documentary and don't see a whole lot of them. Although I enjoyed THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE its reported ovation may have had more to do with its subject matter Robert Evans famed Hollywood Producer and the fact that Sundance is attended  by many people in the industry who know him.Evans is credited with bringing back Paramount from the scrap heap with films like LOVE STORY and THE GODFATHER.  He began as an actor. He plays the Matador in THE SUN ALSO RISES which everyone including Hemmingway himself was dead set against.  But Daryl Zannuck the film's Producer said The Kid stays in the Picture. Evans who narrates the film based on his autobiography said that's when I decided I wanted to be the guy who could say that.TKSITP may be difficult to find in a theatre near you but if you can it certainly is a pleasant watch.  "},{"Title":"Good work you folks. Great documentary!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  An entertaining documentary with a straight forward and humorous approach.This documentary starts out with Robert Evans short acting career, carries into his transition to head of production at Paramount, tells about the most successful films he was involved in (so there was only one flop..oh yea, this is his story), his demise into drugs and depression and reinstatement at Paramount. What a career. And how amazing that most of it was working for Paramount when most other people in his position move around so much.Although the documentary contains the standard photos, video footage, movie footage, news paper clipping, magazine clippings and home movie looking material some creative things have been done to spice things up. The photos have been given 3D imaging. This doesn't detract from the film, in fact it helps tell the story.If you have any interest in a behind the scenes look at Hollywood  Check this movie out. "}{"Title":"Fascinating!  I did not want this movie to end.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Serious movie fans know Robert Evans was the architect of Paramount Picture's Golden Era of 1969 - 1974. Even though by 1974 he was no longer running the studio, he was still producing there, delivering Chinatown. More casual fans won't know about Robert Evans, nor will they care, but this documentary is produced in such a fashion that the casual fan should find it very entertaining.  This movie makes Evan's story so accessible.  It is interesting, and most important, and rare for a documentary, entertaining. Evan's own narration from his audio book feels like he just sat down with you to chat over a couple of drinks.  It flows just like the rest of the movie does and it's wonderful.  This is one of the best movies I've seen this year!  Go and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Interesting and very funny inside look at Hollywood","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Surprisingly detailed look at what goes on inside Hollywood.  To get the most out of it, however, you need to be familiar with the movies and TV of the 60s, 70s, and early 80s.  Should be required viewing for any college film major.  The R rating really isn't necessary.  PG-13 at most.  "},{"Title":"Faux Documentary?  Does not matter. An Exceptional film.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  In watching this fine film, I had no prior knowledge of Robert Evans &#150; but was taken into this &#145;documentary' after hearing a high rating either on radio or in print -- that categorized it as being somewhat exceptional.  It was that rating that caught my interest.This film was indeed exceptional and unique as a documentary in that the substance of the visual is basically from a library horde of still photography shots and apparently professionally taken and seemingly demanded by Evans every inch of his life.  Thanks Gott for still photography!!Up to the end, I did not know that the voice-over was Robert Evans.  And after leaving the screening, I still do not know if the story as told by Evans is true to facts, or loosely true, or simply another hype by those Hollywood media types that exaggerate everything to someone's advantage.  But that knowledge does not matter &#150; since the film was successful beyond my expectations.The glue and paste and threads that capture the imagination is the use of still photography (and motion also) in three dimensions on the screen wherein a simple snapshot seems to float apart from its parts,  where the original is frozen in a 2D orientation.  The visual sense is like looking into an aquarium where fish swim, and suddenly the eye jumps its focus from one fish to another or to a seaweed in a planar sense behind the prior focus and loses contact with the other fish or seaweed.  Atop that, this film uses a collage effect of pasting stills that perhaps are dissociated in time and place, and fix them into the immediate moment that substantiates the Evans POV.This film is pure genius in story telling and cinematic directing.  On top of this is the use of the voice narrative, which skillfully compiles a &#145;fact' that the visual follows in the  &#145;documentary' opinion.  Need a happy face, got it; need a sad face, got it.Now, don't misunderstand me at this point.  I will not run out and rent a DVD or VCR to get caught up with Robert Evans films that I never watched.It simply means that this film is more about &#145;Hollywood' and hubris and deserves a wide distribution.  "},{"Title":"Memories...","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Just a fine job by everyone concerned, right down to whoever designed the visuals to keep something moving, even if it was just still photos, at every point during the narration.  And the narration, by The Man Himself, is the essense of the life portrayed, self-important, not quite as stylish as it makes out, almost irritating, yet, on the whole, absorbing and sympathetic. And a warning to those who rush out of theaters when the closing credits start do that here and you'll miss Dustin Hoffman's improvised impersonation of Evans--a major hoot!   "},{"Title":"One of the Best of the Last Three Years","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in the last three years.  Unexpectedly entertaining.  A non-static documentary that is more interesting than most fiction.  (Note  as a benchmark, other great movies of the last three years include Amores Perros, Y Tu Mamá También and American Beauty.) "},{"Title":"Pretty good doc.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  This documentary is not one of those Earl Morris ones that tries to dissect the meaning of life by observing lion tamers or something like that.  This documentary is more along the lines of a Fox behind the sitcoms style. The documentary simply had newspaper clippings and old photos streaming across the screen with dialogue from Mr. Evans himself.  No interviews of celebrities or other producers.  Not a very creative way to make a movie. But this allows the film to focus purely on its subject, and I was captured by this story immediately.  This is a story of a man who loves the business of business.  He loves the fight rather than the money and when he talks about problems that came up at his time at Paramount, you could tell from his tone that he saw them as challenges to be overcome.You would be amazed at how close great movies such as The Godfather, Love Story and Rosemary's Baby came to not getting made.  There is a great story Robert tells about Frank Sinatra and Rosemary's Baby and you can tell this is one of his proudest achievements.  It has to be seen to be believed.Overall this is not a fancy, artsy documentary, but it was a wonderful story of a Hollywood legend who contributed greatly to present day Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Glitz, Glamour, Sex, Drugs","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Usually, I am not crazy about documentry.  The Kid Stays In The Picture however, was mesmerizing!  It is like Boogie Nights, but a documentry. The Story of Robert Evans is the story of Hollywood itself.  It was Evans who brought us such screen classics as The Godfather, Chinatown, Love Story, Rosemary's Baby and Romeo and Juliet and without his genius and huge ego, Hollywood wouldn't be the same place.  The Film chronicles his rise to the top and his painful fall.  Truly a must see for any film fan. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise, an entertaining creative documentary","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Brett Morgan and Nanette Burstein have put together a fascinating portrait of Hollywood mogul, Robert Evans. The documentary skips over his childhood to his short career as a rising star in films. He was discovered poolside by Norma Shearer who chose him to play her wunderkind husband, Irving Thalberg, in Man of a Thousand Faces. He went on to the colorful role of the bullfighter in Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises. Darryl Zanuck cast him against the desires of Hemingway, Ava Gardner and Tyrone Power who wanted a name actor in the role. When Zanuck filmed his first scene in the bullring he liked what his saw. Hence, the famous line The kid stays in the picture. Evans knew from that day on what he really wanted to do was what Zanuck was doing, make films, not act in them. His next role in The Fiend that Walked the West just solidified his resolve to drop the acting career and move into the behind the scenes part of movie making. The middle part of the story relates his rise to fame as the head of Paramount studios (Love Story, Romeo and Juliet, Harold and Maude and The Godfather) and as independent filmmaker (Chinatown). His subsequent fall from grace is the final third of the tale. The film is creatively told using constant music, film and newsreel clips, and photographs all ingeniously intertwined. Of course, the best part is the narration which is provided by Robert Evans himself. The voiceover is derived from Evans audio book of the biograpphy from which the film is adapted. I went in expecting to be bored. I was riveted for an hour and a half to this classic story of the rise and fall of a Hollywood legend. "},{"Title":"A gem!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" I saw this film by accident. I was watching public television because I currently can't afford high dollar cable. This was one of those Sunday afternoon surprises that I just live for.Honestly, I had forgotten entirely about Bob Evans. He may be the last of the old-style crash and burn very brightly Hollywood moguls. I thoroughly enjoyed his engrossing and utterly self-absorbed manifesto about why his reputation was tarnished. He is totally unaware of how megalomaniac and narcissistic he is as he recounts his life. This is his charm. He is innocent of overblown thinking since he is gifted with a certain blankness about it.The surreal and magical use of stills and collages of photographs are just mesmerizing, as is Bob Evans marvelous voice. Coming into the film totally ignorant of the details in this man's life, you may spend the first half-hour thinking it is an elaborate joke.SPOILER FOLLOWS The very end contains an outtake of Dustin Hoffman impersonating Evans. This almost sent me into cardiac arrest. This alone is worth watching the film. "},{"Title":"Great story telling with nice visual flow and strong personal delivery from Evans","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" When Robert Evans climbed out of a pool while on a business trip he got offered an acting role alongside James Cagney. After this he had a few more appearances as an actor until the well ran dry. An experience with a powerful producer convinced him that that was what he wanted to be &#150; the man behind the man. Buying the rights to the book The Detective was the first step on a career that would see him produce some of the most famous films of the 1970's.I haven't read the book from which this film came but like the majority of people I have seen plenty of the films that Robert Evans was responsible for bringing to the screen. His story is interesting and although it was a risk to have Evans himself tell it, it worked here. Essentially we have Evans talking through his story over stock footage, old photographs and new images. This is the only real weaknesses that I felt the film had &#150; it needs the story telling to be totally engaging because, when it isn't, there isn't anything particularly on the screen to cover for it. The photos are animated well and the images flow nicely (rather than being static shots) and the clips are used rather than just shown. However the main engine here is Evans' story and his telling.For a wider audience I could see why his story may not be of interest but personally it held my attention for the whole time. It had been nicely edited together so that it was never too brief but never stayed too long on any one thing or time. This kept the ego at bay and allowed the story to be told rather than wallowed in or celebrated (most of the time anyway). By the end of the film I felt like I had heard a good story and it had been interesting due to his integral involvement with some of the biggest films of the 1970's; I did have to wonder though why the end credits bothered to list his more recent successes as Sliver, Jade, The Saint and The Phantom &#150; boasting that some of them broke $100 million was probably meant to make us think Evans was back, however it just left me with the impression that his best days are about 20 years behind him now.Overall though this is an effective piece of story telling. The visual delivery helps by being neither dull nor distracting but doing enough to make this more than a radio show. Evans drives the film forward with the value of his story and the personal delivery of his narration. A strong film that fans of films of the period (which must be a large section of the users on this site) should check out. "}{"Title":"Great story but...","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  After watching Wes Anderson interview Robert Evans on PBS (Charlie Rose perhaps)I immediately ran out and bought the Evans' memoirs. I finished The Kid.. in 2 days (~450 pages)a monumental feat for a slow reader like myself. All I can say is that the book was intriguing, and mesmerizing. For two days I swaggered around as if I was in the Hollywood know. The novel is a simply written guilty pleasure. Although Evans' has never graduated high school he writes better than decently (except for his overuse of some random 'word of the day' vocabulary). Nonetheless, I thoroughly enjoyed the paperback and couldn't wait to see the film.  The film is certainly no Maysles production. Obviously the film is as autobiographical as the book, so who knows what side of the truth were getting (remember Evans' three-sides quip). I would recommend the film to anyone who interested in the Hollywood system, film production, or Evans himself. Although tremendously abridged, the film still has the sharp wit and acrid language that made Evans so famous.  I was not a terrible fan of the use of stills and headlines, especially the use of in/out focusing--a poor attempt at three dimensionality. The empty scenes around Evans' mansion were terrible. The worst part of the film is when Evans' himself is moving around his bedroom is some mock triple exposure flashback. Cheese. I would have rather a more traditional 'talking heads' and interviews version. The film only really works because of the story and narration. It's great to get faces to the names--but thats all you really get. This aside the film gets ***1/2 of 5 for the exceptionally open tell-all story.    "},{"Title":"The kid has lived to tell the tale.","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" Filmmakers Brett Morgen and Nanette Burstein use the colorful, if expressive form of the documentary format to examine the wild life and tumultuous career of legendary producer and self-proclaimed bad boy.....Robert Evans.From clothing tycoon to Hollywood mogul, Evans became the first actor to ever run a major studio. Under his regime, Paramount Pictures went from poverty row to fulfilling riches thanks to the successes of ROSEMARY'S BABY, THE ODD COUPLE, LOVE STORY and THE GODFATHER. In 1974, Evans' first effort as an independent producer was Roman Polanski's masterpiece CHINATOWN which garnered his only Oscar nomination for Best Picture.Morgen and Burstein brilliantly capture not only Evans' roller-coaster career in the business, but they also explore the last true Golden Age of Hollywood movie-making in the 1970's. Eschewing the traditional documentary medium of using monotone narrators and talking heads, the filmmakers rely on Evans' ruthless, but engaging presence to take viewers on his personal journey. Of course, the 1980's were not that kind to Evans on a traumatic level; his devastating cocaine arrest, the box office disappointments of POPEYE and THE COTTON CLUB, and his unwitting implication in the murder of promoter Roy Radin.But somehow, Evans miraculously came back at the forefront of credibility. Although he's no longer at the top, the legendary producer has lived to tell the tale that would make a great double feature with Xan Cassavetes' Z CHANNEL A MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION. It is a must-see documentary for film lovers and professionals everywhere. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" The Kid Stays In the Picture is another in a series of stylistic documentaries over the last few years that seems to be reinvigorating the form by using different narrative and filmic techniques in service to a story. In Winged Migration it was an interplay of raising birds from hatchlings, mixing great flying footage with special effects, in The Fog Of War it was juxtaposing a man's life (ex-Defense Secretary Robert McNamara) with his beliefs, & then with special effects and facts not widely known, but this film goes the furthest in pushing this technique, to almost docudrama, and it succeeds brilliantly. As a work of art it's a tour de force. It's subject matter may seem a bit more problematic- it is not the life of a major political figure, but of a Zelig-like Hollywood mogul- Robert Evans- whose rise and fall is chronicled mostly by his own narration, & the computer effects of taking still photographs & making them come alive. There is very little of the talking head phenomena that infects most film documentaries. In his behind the scenes with the stars life Evans resembles rock DJ Rodney Bingenheimer from the documentary The Mayor Of Sunset Strip, and in its blend of subjectivity with reality it shares a kinship with the Harvey Pekar docudrama American Splendor, yet it succeeds far more than either of those two films because its subject is not an oddball, and has actually led a life worth examining. Neither Bingenheimer nor Pekar ever had the personal success Evans did&#133;. Filmmakers Brett Morgen and Nanette Burstein have achieved something rare in the film world- a documentary that both pushes the genre's boundaries yet achieves what all but the very best documentaries achieve- insight into its subject matter. Evans is a man who is both a starmaker and starstruck fan, barren chaff yet sage insider. He is truthful- to a degree, arrogant, yet self-deprecating- a refreshing turn from many self-satisfied and dishonest documentaries. This film was clearly worlds better than Bowling For Columbine- the doc that won the Oscar that year, yet the reason for its not winning, nor even being nominated, is obvious- aside from the fact Evans made many enemies in Hollywood. Most viewers will forget it is a documentary while it's being watched. So effectively subversive are Morgan and Burstein in their technique that it works against them in terms of recognition. Yet, this film, not Columbine, will be studied in film school.As for the features, there is not much- no making of documentary, just assorted interviews with celebrities at the film's premiere, and Evans accepting some awards. The commentary track by Morgan and Burstein is superb, one of the best explications of the marriage of technique with subject matter you're likely to hear.A cynic might argue that the film is an homage to a talentless actor who just had a knack for being in the right place at the right time, and to a degree that's true. But, the film is really about the solipsistic nature of all people. We know that. We are that, by and large. It's only when we see that in people richer, more famous, and more rewarded that we look away from ourselves. The film opens with a quote from Evans 'There are three sides to every story my side, your side, and the truth. And no one is lying. Memories shared serve each one differently.' Rarely has such truth been admitted by anyone in film, rarer still something done with it. This is why The Kid Stays In The Picture is a great documentary. "},{"Title":"Well made, interesting.....","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":" ......oddly enough I had never heard of him before this came out--Robert who?? Turns out of course I should have--the guy produced Chinatown, Godfather and Marathon Man, along w/ sooo many others. Interesting indeed. I was fascinated to see him climb the rungs of Hollywood success, a lot of it having to do w/ attitude and not taking no for an answer. You hadda like those two Russki types who were his bosses as well.Startling also the way his career cratered in the 80's due to drugs and bad career choices(Cotton Club??)--such a contrast to his 70s peak. Only real problem I had w/ the movie--they should label some of the starlets on his arms in all those stills, ya know? I sorta picked out Joan Collins at 28 in one, but a series of blondes of the months can be confusing to remember. Who is gonna recognize Hilary Duff in 30 years who wasn't there, after all? Karen Black who?Overall worth a watch.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Robert Evans tells you what the last three decades of being Evans was like","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*The Kid Stays in the Picture is a documentary about a guy who was really lucky. Then he wasn't so lucky. Then he was again. He was/is a producer/studio head/actor/party animal/super stud etc. It's a documentary that proves that people can never be truly happy. They can never be content. It is never enough. For Robert Evans, the mountain top was his home. He didn't handle it well when he was booted off. So he climbed it again. It was the top of Mount Evans or nothing.Evans, (as he likes to refer to himself), knows that he's led a blessed life.  He makes a string of classic films and life is sweet. Unfortunately, his Love Story comes crashing down as he loses Ali MacGraw because he was too busy being Evans. No problem for Evans though. He bounces back. No matter what calamity befalls him, he's right back. Then the 80's rear its head and it's a steep drop.Maybe I've seen too many confessional pieces where people wallow in self-pity. I just can't shed a tear for heartbroken millionaires. Evans is treated badly after The Cotton Club and he gets down on life. This is where the documentary lost me. The 70's had the great anecdotes and Hollywood juice. The 80's were pure misery, for Evans and for this viewer. I'm glad Evans bounced back again to go on to produce Jade. Now there was a good sleazy film.  But to sit there and listen to this guy go on about how depressed he was turned me cold. Grown men weeping will kill any flick. Evans should know that.  "},{"Title":"The Godfather takes Rosemary's Baby to Chinatown (and back again)","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography","Review":"  Make sure you stay until the end, when Dustin Hoffman does an absolutely hilarious improvised impression of Robert Evans over the credits of this amazing documentary, narrated by Evans himself in his world-wise gravelly voice.  Life as art in its most entertaining form. "}]