[{"Title":"Keep the film in perspective","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I just finished watching Like Mike with my 7 year old son and he loved it. On a scale from 1-10 I gave it an 8.  I must admit I was partial on the vote because it reflected my son's enjoyment.  I think some should remember that this was a kid's movie and shouldn't take it so seriously.  I enjoyed the flow and even though it was obviously very predictable let's not forget the target audience for this film. Like Mike was enjoyable and warm and perfect for your FAMILY film night, as it was intended in the first place. "},{"Title":"Snoop's Little Bro does well","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Extremely funny, lighthearted kids romp with a positive message and enduring theme.  Was pleased seeing a young rapper placed in a non-stereotypical role that valued family and teamwork themes.  The basketball player big brother Morris Chestnut worked well as a trouble gifted basketball player who reluctantly takes Bow Wow under his wings and albeit predictable softens up in his parental role with the youngster.  The scene where they paint geometry lessons on the side of his mansion was hilarious and keep up the importance of school!  Kids do the darnest things and I can see a youngster after a pair of magical shoes clinging to a tree in a thunderstorm.  Okay, as a parent thats dangerous and would not want to see my youngster dangling from this tree BUT I do remember my own exploits as a child doing much of the same type of daring challenges.  Kids will be kids so this gives excellent opportunity for the parent to talk with their child about keeping it safe!  The NBA should be elated to have been giving a more good-guy image then their typical bad boy look.  Very satisfied with this film portraying a positive image for my children to watch. Go Ohio!  ) "},{"Title":"Not Bad For Its Type","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  An unusually strong supporting cast (including Crispin Glover, Robert Forster, Eugene Levy and Anne Meara) enlivens this simple family comedy built around the appealing young actor Lil' Bow Wow. He plays an orphan who, upon finding a magical pair of sneakers, becomes an NBA superstar and in the process befriends another player (Morris Chestnut) with his own family problems. Bow Wow will have an appeal to children of various ages because his own age seems indeterminate; he can act like a teenager (managing various relationships in the orphanage, rallying his teammates) or a pre-teen (gorging himself on so much food he gets sick, saying his prayers at bedtime); and his winning smile makes him non-threatening to adults. There's absolutely nothing that isn't predictable here and the film itself culls themes and sequences from other family films such as `Home Alone' and `E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial'. There's also nothing objectionable either it's barely above the level of a Disney Channel movie so kids will gobble it up, which isn't a bad thing. The NBA had a hand in making the film in an obvious attempt to improve its bad boy image, and naturally most of the real players come off as kindly, caring and ready to perform good works. (Fortunately, there are exceptions Allen Iverson doesn't play cute and Gary Payton treats Bow Wow as an equal on the court, making him pay.) Not bad for its genre--that supporting cast definitely helps, especially the always-welcome Glover and Levy--but hardly memorable. "},{"Title":"Excellent sports film for kids","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I'm giving this a 10 because in its genre it shines - it really is a great sports movie for kids! Lil Bow Wow is great, very natural, and very likable and the supporting cast all do their thing and make this inoffensive, entertaining, and we found lot of reasons to smile broadly.With LOADS of basketball any kid that likes the game will be happy - of course, teams and players will change, but this is still really fun.It reminded me of the old Disney films where magic, or experiments, gave some special powers and poof! sit back and watch time....Absolutely recommended for kids and parents alike... we all loved this and would watch again.Best thing I can say is that the kids just wanted to run out in the garden and play ball afterward, which is a pretty positive result!!! "},{"Title":"Alright.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  *****SPOILER*****It is an alright family movie.  A lot of things aren't real or true.  One thing I didn't was why Michael Jordan wasn't in the movie.  The movie is partially based on Michael Jordan.  Another thing was that it felt more like a kids movie than a regular general family movie like Rookie of the Year. It is  related to Rookie of the Year in so many ways.  Rookie of the Year was a better movie.6/10 Stars  "},{"Title":"Magical Nikes OK with me","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like Mike was one of those fun family movies. I never had high expectations of the movie going in and subsequently I was pleasantly surprised. It is no masterpiece, but it is definitely a worthwhile-piece. Bow-Wow was decent as was the script. The movie held an even keel throughout, never getting too dull, but also never having any real riotous moments. Obviously the movie was a bit of a fantasy with a boy finding mystical shoes that gave him the skills of Michael Jordan; but hey, that is what made the movie as good as it was. I like the idea of using a kid as opposed to an adult so as to make the movie more entertaining. In fact, it reminds me of a story I wrote for a sixth grade project. All-in-all, a good movie, certainly better than average. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I took my 9yr old daughter and her friend to see this movie.  We had so much fun!  We laughed and laughed.  GREAT family movie. One you can watch and not be offended with language, etc.  We want to see it again.  FUN FUN FUN! "},{"Title":"A great film for the family","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I actually saw Like Mike the same day I saw the horrible Men in Black 2. Like Mike was really good. I feel this movie deserves more press than that garbage Men in Black 2. Lil Bow Wow actually suprised me with his acting. He was funny and sometimes dramatic. I really felt the character bond between Calvin (Lil Bow Wow) and his friend Murph (Jonathan Lipnicki). It was a cute film and can be great for the family. Parents take your kid to see Like Mike. I give it a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Every kid's dream","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Playing basketball in the schoolyard and with friends is one of the most fun times in our lives as children. The courts are always a welcoming place for both experts and novice, and one where learning and fun are the crux. Like Mike brings the dreams of all our youth and broadcasts it. Living vicariously has never been better.Whether it's the food service, free merchandise or simply having trivial matters no longer be worrisome, playing in the NBA is a dream we all have, albeit for different reasons. Coming from an orphanage, hard work is vital for success (as it is in most cases). When in a position where you're given the reins, you must capitalize. When given MJ's shoes, you make it count. Like Mike is a fun movie. From the very first scene on the playground to the climactic finish, it's the tale about kids being kids, but still managing to play out their dreams. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Children's Sports Fable","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like Mike is a fantasy sports comedy film about a 14-year-old orphan that becomes an NBA superstar after trying on a pair of sneakers with the faded initials M.J. inside he found. Pint-size rap music star Lil Bow Wow stars in it where he shows that he can play ball as well as he raps in this youth-oriented comedy about a young boy whose dream comes true in an unexpected way. The film was produced in association with NBA Entertainment and features cameo appearances by many NBA stars like Allen Iverson, Chris Webber, Jason Kidd, Vince Carter, Michael Finley, Steve Francis, Dirk Nowitzki, Desmond Mason, Tracy McGrady, Alonzo Mourning, Steve Nash and Gary Payton.Calvin Cambridge is a 14-year-old boy, who, since the death of his parents, has been living in an orphanage run by the unpleasantly eccentric Stan Bittleman. While the tough but caring Sister Theresa tries to encourage the kids, Calvin knows that he and most of the other kids his age are poor prospects for adoption. Calvin loves basketball and idolizes Michael Jordan, but he's too short to be much of a challenge to the older kids when shooting hoop at the playground. One day, Calvin discovers a pair of old basketball sneakers with the initials MJ written on the inside. Calvin is convinced they once belonged to Michael Jordan, but he can hardly believe what happens when he puts them on -- suddenly he's able to make superhuman jump shots and dunks just like a miniature version of Air Jordan himself. Calvin's newly developed talent on the court comes to the attention of Frank Bernard, the manager of the Los Angeles Knights, an NBA team having a humiliating season. Bernard brings Calvin to the team as a novelty item, but with the help of Coach Wagner and the new kid's can-do attitude, the Knights start to climb out of the cellar and look like possible season champs. However, Tracey Reynolds, who used to be the team's star player, isn't happy to have his thunder stolen by a 14-year-old boy especially when he's made Calvin's roommate and guardian on the road.This is a pleasant and innocuous diversion for kids despite its movie's predictable plot lines. Though it doesn't exactly offer any great shakes in terms of plot or character development, the film's entertaining enough to be watched. Bow Wow makes an impressive film debut; parents and children will love Calv's plucky can-do attitude; and the action sequences are given a little more enjoyment due to the presence of real life basketball pros. A fantasy fable that should keep everyone in the family entertained. "}{"Title":"Hollywood's take on a childhood fantasy","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like Mike will most likely be a charmer for kids between the ages of five and ten, to which this movie is naturally targeted towards. As someone speaking well outside of that demographic, it's a tiresome hour and a half. Considering all the refreshing films aimed at this sort of demographic, both live action and animated, to have children suspend reality and pause the real world for Like Mike is an unnecessary move.Is the film harmful? Not in the slightest. To its respect, it is genial and kind, throughout most of its runtime (Despite the total 180 the film takes in a scene where a goon threatens to burn a young kid's only picture of his biological family if he doesn't confess to where Calvin's sneakers are at). But is it particularly ideal for a growing child? I don't believe so. The film treats the real world as if clichés are part of life and how quickly a wholesome story gets opted for one of almost no realism beyond the character's names. If that's what you're looking for, pay no mind to me.The story centers around Calvin Coolidge (Lil' Bow Wow), a young orphan who comes in contact with a magical pair of Nike sneakers with the ambiguous initials MJ on them. Well, the only MJ Calvin knows is Michael Jordan, Chicago Bulls all-star, so that's who it must be. We never do get a straight answer, but I guess a clever assumption is good enough.Calvin realizes that whenever he puts on the shoes, he becomes amazing at basketball. In a very contrived scene where Calvin's ticket number is called when he is lucky enough to go to a basketball game, he winds up beating the own player at his game by scoring three shots on the man.So, he becomes contracted to the Minnesota Timberwolves and starts to befriend their player, Tracy Reynolds (Morris Chestnut), who clearly doesn't want to be befriended. He is an introverted soul, who loves random hookups and hates the thought of seeing any member of his family again, let alone starting his own. When Calvin, Tracy, and the rest of the Timberwolves are not on the court, Calvin tries to get direct access to Tracy's heart.The idea of a young orphan becoming a sports star just because of a pair of sneakers is a little more than far-fetched. I suppose it's an ode to those Nike ads from back in the day that if unsuspecting young-ins bought clothing endorsed by this sports star they would be able to play like that specific star. Speaking of ads, don't even get me started on the shameless way this film is acting as a vehicle for the NBA.We end on a schmaltzy cookie-cutter note and learn next to nothing throughout this whole experience. Like Mike is a child's fantasy come to life, from what I can assume. Personally, I' d rather see my child act out his own unique fantasies than pay money to see Hollywood's take on them. Seems a lot healthier for the both of us.Starring Lil' Bow Wow, Jonathan Lipnicki, Morris Chestnut, Robert Forster, Crispin Glover, and Eugene Levy. Directed by John Schultz. "},{"Title":"Warm film for the family. Mind the Press ratings.","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have watched several films that span across many different categories and time-frames (everything from the absolute greatest to the all-time worst rated films). In my honest opinion, I believe that the movie is definitely more deserving of a 4.5 rating, but not high enough to reach the 7 to 10 range. I believe that this movie is somewhere in the low 6's.The film has touches of humor in small scenes that are a bit too cheesy for the adult crowd. The film is also flawed with some cartoony and downright predictable scenes, but it is nowhere near as cartoony as a basketball flick like Space Jam. The flaws that this movie contains are most definitely made up for with several meaningful scenes that project emotions of ambition, courage, suspense, sadness, and happiness. The pace of the film is very easygoing from the beginning and while the shots are not astounding, they serve their purpose more than well.The same applies for the soundtrack as do the shots. It is certainly not the best, but the dramatic scenes have their own orchestrated bits and the flashy scenes have cuts of hip-hop and pop, which is what Lil' Bow Wow (the protagonist) was known for. They work well with the theme of the film.In conclusion, the concept of the story may seem a little far-fetched, but the overall message is definitely made clear as the movie progresses and leaves viewers leaning towards the gratified side of the spectrum in the ending. "},{"Title":"I watched Like Mike in  Nov 2008","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I just watched it. Fresh and entertaining it had magic, good acting, good story, happy ending. If you're a sports fan and who isn't you will like it. I wonder if Jack Nicholson liked it. I'll bet a grand that he did. It is a great kid's story and appealed to the kid in me. I'm 60 and I'm still kicking. If you like stories with children at the center like The Bells of St. Mary's with Bing Crosby and Ingrid Bergman you will like this. It is not another dull adult comedy that will bore everyone. Where there is hope you will find kids because they are our hope. This one is much better than the movie with Shack as the genie. The movie was perfect in every way or I wouldn't have given it an 8. Enjoy it as much as I did. I'm getting a copy of it as soon as I find it. It is really a 7 or 8 and nothing less. Don't let the 4 or 5 fool you. "},{"Title":"Pulling the old Teen Wolf trick","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a formulaic kinds movie in all senses where you can see every script movie coming a mile away but still manages to be harmless fun. Little Bow Wow plays an orphan who is given a pair of basketball shoes that he believes belonged to Michael Jordan and in turn give him unbelievable skills that he ends up getting signed by the LA Knights NBA team. There are the Normal lesson s of morality and family values you would expect from this kind of movie which thankfully the child actors do not lay on to thick. Moris Chestnut does well in the father figure role and there is able support from Crispin Glover (I bet he regrets asking for so much money that he got written out of 'Back to the Future 2) and Robert Forster (thank god QT saved him), which all results in the inevitable bit not disappointing ending. Would I watch it again? Only with kids present. "},{"Title":"Predictable but likable family movie","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I am not saying this movie is perfect as it isn't. The story is very predictable, the ending is a little too silly for my liking and the villain is disappointing, more to do with how he was written than how he was acted. That said, the cinematography, scenery and music are cool and the film is snappily written and directed. The pacing is also brisk, and the chemistry between the two leads is believable. I was impressed with Bow Wow in his debut, he makes for quite an appealing lead and makes the most of what he has. So all in all, this is far from perfect family entertainment but for some harmless fun I actually recommend it. However, for a sophisticated plot or a milestone of a villain, this may disappoint. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"There are worse movies, but there are better ones, too","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Contains one extremely minor spoiler.Well, I've never seen Rookie of the Year, and I didn't watch this with any kids. Would kids like it? I think you probably better see it yourself first, and then you'll know, based on your kids.It's a nice enough movie. I liked Li'l Bow Wow as Calvin, really liked Morris Chestnut as Reynolds. Jonathan Lipnicki was fine for what he had to do. Brenda Song was also good, though she got little to do. Crispin Glover might have been good, but his role was so terrible it was hard to tell. Eugene Levy had no role, so he was unfortunately wasted. Robert Forster seemed very nice as the Coach, too bad we didn't see more of him. Music was used very well, and overall, the movie was certainly watchable.The problem is that the movie is really about nothing... not family, not teamwork, not magic and certainly not basketball. It's not even about being a child star. It's not for kids, or for adults.For instance, the ultimate father figure has unspecified problems with his own father. Children of an age to enjoy this movie without reservation will not relate to treating one's father as dead to me. Children who are so unfortunate as to relate to such a situation will certainly not be satisfied by the (unspecified) feel-good resolution to the unspecified problem. So what's the point?Teamwork? The orphans display more teamwork than the professional team players, since the professionals are not actually portrayed as a team in any way, the only members are Calvin and his mentor, and one other member Calvin is friendly with. Calvin's membership in the community of orphans is clearly more important than his membership in the community of basketball players, so no one is going to get any tips here on how to  be part of a team by watching Calvin's behaviour in these two very different situations.Morality? Ummmm, no... even leaving out Cripsin Glover as the rather alarmingly ruthless guardian, Calvin himself never has a moment's hesitation about using these magic shoes to mislead everyone. OK, not that anyone (especially a kid) wouldn't do this, but he's 13. Not a single moment of self-doubt? Not a single moment of Is this right? No sleepless nights full of fear because it would all be over instantly if they found out...? No.Things in heaven and earth greater than our comprehension? No again...the shoes are magic, they just show up, they just break at the right time (that's the spoiler, but trust me, you knew it would happen). Why they're magic, why Calvin and not Murph or Ox, why anything is not going to be asked or answered, so we can skip this movie being about magic.So I guess we could ultimately call this a The Kooky Story Of How I Met My True (Love, Family, Destiny, whatever-- you know the drill) movie, since that's about the only thing that ties this together at all. As far as such movies go, no one will be surprised to hear that there's better ones, even for kids. But this one is a perfectly adequate way to pass an hour or two, and it is nice to see a father figure who paints geometry examples on the exterior walls of the house, so there you go. "},{"Title":"Short people can really like this movie","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My husband and I are not exactly tall, nor are we into sports. However, we enjoyed this movie so much we took a friend when we went a second time and have now bought the video. It was a real pleasure to identify with a short outcast who gets a chance to be a valued member of a team. There were more than a few really silly parts which we continue to laugh at. "},{"Title":"good family film","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Not the greatest film of all time, but a very good family film. Everything in the movie is very improbable, but, who cares. It is a film that a family with kids will enjoy. Very simple film with simple characters and a simple plot. "},{"Title":"cute!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i liked it. simple as that. it was a cute little family movie that had a good feel to it. although i'm not a huge fan of lil bow wow, i thought he was adorable in this movie. he's a better actor than most singer-turned-actors out there, and i don't think i need to mention any names... it was a heart-filled movie that gave the viewers a positive feeling... i really respected how they used some real basketball players for some of the games..  "},{"Title":"A Great film the whole family will enjoy","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Like Mike is a great Father and Son Movie everyone could enjoy and relate to.The Movie tells a story about Calvin Cambridge(Lil Bow Wow)Who is a orphan and is looking for the perfect family.One day He stumble upon some shoes which was once worn by a really famous Basketball inside the shoes it features the initials MJ he then realize that famous Basketball player shoes belong to Michael Jordan.One day Calvin wears the shoes and goes to a Los Angeles Knights Game.While at the game he wins a chance to go one on one with Tracey Reynolds(Morris Chestnut)of the Los Angeles Knights.He wins the one on one match up with Tracey thanks to his MJ'S now Calvin Cambridge gets to play in The NBA With the LA Knights.I like this movie a lot because I saw the relationship betweeen Tracey and Bow wow build up in this film And at the end I almost cry because The Moment felt so emotional and well there isn't another word to describe it(And I'm not telling you the ending of the Movie).GO SEE LIKE MIKE A great Family film everyone will love they'll laugh and they'll cry in certain parts of the movie.I give the movie 8 out of 10 Stars "}{"Title":"Check It Out","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I thought it was great.  When you go to see a movie like this you have to keep in mind the audience to which it's catered.  So there may be some elements that don't seem logical to the adult mind, but who cares, it's for kids.  Being a fan of basketball I might be biased, but I thought it was a quality family movie.  I found it funny (and no, I'm not 12) and touching as well.  Lil' Bow Wow really surprised me with his acting skills and Morris Chestnut was also good in his role.  I loved all the cameos from the NBA players as well.  Overall, I would definitely recommend it.  People might knock it, but in all honesty this kid flick is better than many of the other movies I've wasted my money on seeing lately.  It leaves you feeling good, and if a movie can do that then I'd say it's done its job. "},{"Title":"Like Mike is the greatest film of the summer!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally, a solid film for every age!  I took my kids to see LIKE MIKE and was pleasantly surprised!  It's a great film!  It has a solid story with splashes of humor and warm-hearted spirit.  As a perk, there is no foul language!  We certainly got our money's worth.  The kids laughed and cheered while their parents cheered along with them!  Bow Wow delivers a knock out performance - he's a movie star!  The movie reminds me of The Wizard of Oz as Bow goes from a dull world into the vivid colors and sets of the NBA world.  The red swivel chair in the plane scene is cool!  The NBA looks like so much fun, I want to play basketball!  Overall, this movie is one we will buy on Video and DVD when it comes out.  It's a keeper!  To the film makers - bring us more family fare like this one! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie and thought it was great. I have two younger sisters, and nowadays I cannot find a good movie that I enjoy, and that is appropriate for my 10 year old sister. This was a very good movie, very clean and enjoyable. Other than the fact that Bow climbs an electric wire in the rain, and that the shoes were magic, the storyline was just enough realistic so that kids can see that life isn't perfect for everyone. Other people have problems too. And there were a surprising twist of events. All in all, I think this was a great show. I really appreciate finding a movie that I don't have to worry about my sisters, and that my parents feel okay with us watching. Thank you! "},{"Title":"A good, clean movie that's fun for kids of all ages.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Like just about every other recent pop star before him, Lil' Bow Wow has landed the starring role in a major motion picture. Unlike the rest of them, he has managed to carry a good, clean family film. There's nothing too offensive here and kids of all ages (at least from the test screening) seemed to eat it up. While it's not terribly original (see Rookie of the Year), it's not trying to re-invent kids' movies, it's just trying to entertain in a fun, safe way, which it does. Bow (Mr. Wow?) has enough boyish charm and enough charisma to show what could be a promising acting career in addition to his duties as a rapper. Morris Chestnut (The Brothers) does well as an unwilling mentor who becomes a father figure to the orphaned boy. Crispin Glover is pretty creepy as the greedy caretaker of the boy, and Robert Forester and Eugune Levy both have humorous bit parts. Funny cameos by famous basketball players with obviously little acting skills give it an authentic feel. While this probably won't do too well with critics, that's not who it was made for. The target audience is young kids and it will work for them. Parents won't have to worry about anything objective, except a questionable scene where Bow climbs an electrical wire in a rainstorm to recover his shoes. It's entertaining for kids and passable for adults taking their children. If this sounds good to you, you'll probably like it. If not, it wasn't made for you anyway.  "},{"Title":"Y'all gonna make me lose my mind","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here Y'all gon' make me lose my mind up in here, up in here "},{"Title":"Proof that IMDb should at times be ignored","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is by no means, an awful film. I recently downloaded a copy of the film for my sister and she thoroughly enjoyed. She actually enjoyed it so much, she watched in 3 times in the next week! She told me it was a great film and I began to watch it. I must admit, at first the film seemed a little weird but very soon the film introduces you to Kalvin, Reg and Murph and the bully leader Ox. That was one particular strength for the film. Also, when the coach gives Kalvin the tickets, you can start to connect with the character and understand what his life as an orphan must be like. The film got my attention and I began to enjoy it. It had, to be fair, not many laughs but the story was good, closely resembling the story 'Holes' in many ways. Tracy Renalds was a brilliant addition to the film and he really connected well with Kalvin. This was, in my opinion, the biggest strength of this film. Brenda Song does a great job as playing Reg. I'm a big fan of 'Suite Life of Zack and Cody' where she does an amazing job and I thought her performance was great in this film. Bow Wow did a very good job in the film. Overall, definitely ignore IMDb on this circumstance and watch this film. However, note that this film is not for all ages and its mainly for little children but I myself being a 16 year old liked it. "},{"Title":"entertaining movie!","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this movie earlier today and i thought it was pretty neat and original.I've watched this movie a long time ago when it came out but i forgot what happened. Like Mike is a great entertaining movie for kids and basketball fans. Its cool how they show real NBA players in the movie. They included stars like Allen Iverson, Jason Kidd, Vince Carter, Tracy Mcgrady and many more.Some things that were cool about this movie is how they used the special effects to make Calvin dunk the ball in the net. I loved the beginning when Calvin finds the shows, puts them on and sees that they have the initials of MJ- Michael Jordan. Afterwards when Ox, the bully throws the shoes on the wire above the orphanage, Calvin decides to go and get them in the middle of the night in the rain. He then picks them up then drops to the ground. The electric shock is what made Calvin have the powers. It weren't the shoes themselves, it was the electric shock that gave the shoes have magic...Many people didn't realize this. I also like the name of the nba team, Los Angeles Knights.Bow Wow did a great job acting in his first movie where he has the lead role, he surprised a lot of people, included me. Moris Chestnut as Tracy Reynolds was also great, along with Calvins friends Murph and that Asian girl (forget her name)...the plot was kinda predictable but still very fun.I highly recommend this movie, go ahead and pick it up on DVD, its cheap "},{"Title":"bad acting, but not a terrible movie","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Lil Bow Wow and every single one of the real basketball players in the movie, especially Iverson CAN NOT act at all! I laughed at how bad the acting was, but i liked the story.  Typical orphan/adoption story with some added features. I give it a 5/10 because it was more of a kids movie and i see why I see why I didnt enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie for the Children & Parents","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Think of this movie as a basketball version of The Natural with a slant towards children with child settings, and make the main character too young instead of old.  This is a basketball Cinderella story that is very enjoyable to watch and the children will like this movie.  It is refreshing to see this movie being made, and Lil Bow Wow just exudes charisma. "},{"Title":"Finally a clean kid movie!!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently saw this film and felt that it was appropriate for kids of all ages.  Why will you enjoy this film even if you're an adult?  Because it is warm hearted, funny, and clean.  This is definately the sort of movie you could take your kids to go see, and feel comfortable watching it with them. It shows the good and bad sides of the NBA players, but also the fun sides as well!!  I hope you enjoy this film. It was incredibly funny!!! "}{"Title":"Like Watching Michael Jordan Return","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fourteen-year-old orphan Calvin Coolidge (Lil Bow Wow) dreams of one day being a famous professional basketball player. But his diminutive stature and limited ability make his goal a far-off fantasy. Or is it? When Calvin dons a pair of old sneakers, with the faded initials M.J. inscribed inside, he displays amazing hoop skills, and leads a struggling NBA team to victory. When i heard the reviews i refused to go to see this movie. After it was over i changed my mind about what i thought earlier this movie was great. A clean good movie for kids and adults.My advicePlease go see this you and your family will like it. Like Mike 9/10 "},{"Title":"Like Cool","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that Like Mike was cool.Before I didn't like Basketball but now I like  it.I like how they have heaps of NBA guest stars.Also with Crispin Glover as the evil orphanage owner. I liked it when Tracy adopted Murphy and Calvin.It's a typical storyline but still it has that touch of uniqueness and creativeness and that it is about a orphan boy and an NBA stars relationship.I found it touching and really good. "},{"Title":"Quite a big disappointment!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I've started watching this picture with high hopes, you might ask yourself why? well, as a basketball fan at a hole and a NBA fan particularly I'll tell you that there are'nt as many BBall movies as one can expect, But when such a movie does come out in theaters, it is great like SpaceJam and a few more.When I saw this movie I thought it's gonna be another great Basketball film that I could watch again and again, but it's nothing but another kids film Bow Wow acting was insulting and the NBA players were not used properly. BIG DISAPPOINTMENT!!! "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A family movie that stays true to the word family (unlike Hey Arnold for example). Of course the plot was a bit lame, (after all, it is a kids movie) and props to the mainly inexperienced cast who nevertheless give it their all. Most of the negative reviews I've seen seem to be concerned that this is a NBA PR picture. Well, I guess that makes the last movie I watched a Paramount PR picture, and the one before that a Warner Bros PR picture. Come on, this movie could have been better, but it does what it is supposed to do. Kids shouldn't be forced to grow up so quickly these days. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i think this movie is the best movie in the world because i like Bow Wow and Allen Iverson there awesome and i love basketball i like how Calvin Cambridge gets the shoes and makes him a superstar.And he does some cool moves like high slam dunks and he beats all the basketball players like Allen Iverson and Morris Chestnut.I like how the movie is set out to help orphans and how Calvin gets a dad which is a famous basketball player and how he got his revenge on Bill Bittleman.I hope like mike 3 will get made i seen like mike 2 but i don't like it as much as number 1 its amazing how Calvin got famous out of nowhere.I all so like his pal orphans except ox because he ripped Calvins jersey at the start of the movie. "},{"Title":"A great flim for the young and the young at heart","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Like Mike is clearly one of the best films that I've seen this summer. The film is funny and heartwarming and has the potential to be a sleeper hit. Lil Bow Wow plays Calvin Cmabridge very good in his first lead role he carries the movie very easily by hisself and has good chemsitrsty with Johnaten Lipnicki and Morris Chestnut. The film has good one-liners and great basketball sequences along with cameo's from many NBA like Tracy McGrady,Allen Iverson(who I can't stand) and Jason Kidd and it's also great to see Crispin Glover play a villian. While the film isn't Oscar Worthy it's a great crowd pleaser. "},{"Title":"I am a school teacher, and I will use this movie to teach lessons on life.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent movie. Lil Bow Wow and Morris Chesnutt gave a funny and inspirational performance. I am a teacher, and I will use this movie in my class to teach lessons about life in general.  Entertaining for all ages.  The movie taught lessons, showed action, comedy, and emotions. "},{"Title":"like mike.. a story about sneakers, basketball, and having a family!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i watched like mike yesterday night and it was a great movie to watch with your family,, so i gave my vote as 10 out of 10. it seems at first, just a ordinary kid's movie, because of the sneaker thing. so i thought it was kinda boring and ordinary,but it becomes better as the movie goes on. ah i felt so touched by tracey Reynold -morris chestnut adopting calvin Cambridge - bow wow as his son I LOVE THIS MOVIE... and if you have a small kid in your family, rent a DVD and watch it...i bet the kid will love it... even i love it even though I'm not really a young child! lol.......................................................... "},{"Title":"I love the film and to know it is about Basketball makes it even more exciting for me because I love Basketball.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Mike (Lil Bow Wow) was good in his first lead role and carried out his part fantastically. Lil Bow Wow worked fantastically with Jonathon Lipnicki, Brenda Song and especially Morris Chestnut. The only unrealistic thing was that Mike's shoes were magic. This film showed me the sort of life orphanages live, their emotions and the things that orphans who live in orphanages have to do.Like Mike is about an orphan (Bow Wow) who lives at a Orphanage and he is given Trainers that turn into magic. Him and his friends go to see a Basketball match and a person who has the right number has to play Basketball with a real player and Mike gets chosen. Because Mike is wearing the magic trainers he wins every match and Mike becomes a Basketball player. Some men are after the trainers and take the trainers but Mike and his pals get the trainers back. "},{"Title":"I've watched this movie several times already","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" just had to put in my 2 cents because of all the old and poor reviews. I'm not ashamed, but I've watched this movie several times already this past month!! granted, I caught it in bits and pieces at first. but ultimately this is a charming fantasy movie. who cares if Michael Jordan is never mentioned in name or makes an appearance?! at the risk of losing all credibility, I also thought Eddie starring Whoopi Goldberg was another great fantasy sports movie.anyhow, the Morris Chestnut character reminded me of the LL Cool J character in Deliver Us From Eva. very likable. Crispin Glover plays his usual role. Brenda Song is cute, and hope that bigger better things happen for her. Jonathan Lipnicki is getting more annoying to watch, I almost wish he'd just quickly grow up and become another child actor failing to make it as an adult. sorry that sounds so mean ;-) I don't know any of his music, but Bow Wow is a great natural actor, and I can't wait to see his upcoming movies. "}{"Title":"my favorite next to angels in the  outfield","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A wonderful debut for little Bow-Wow. This movie was-hearted and funny. Next to Rookie of the Year and Angels in the Outfield, I find this just as enjoyable. It was warm-hearted and funny. A story that began as a 13 year orphan named Calvin Cambridge who has a passion to be a professional basketball player but due to his small frame it didn't seem possible. One night Calvin tried to get a pair of sneakers off a wire in the rain but when he gets close lighting hits him. The next night Calvin is wearing the sneakers at a basketball game where he is selected at halftime to play one on one with his favorite player Tracey Reynolds. Then Calvin amazing shows some incredible basketball skills and it is soon after that he is asked to join the Knights. This is a great movie for sports fans. Morris Chestnut and Little Bow-Wow are simply wonderful in this movie. This is a true sports comedy classic. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't want to be Like Mike - I'd be called sellout! Then again...","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was the first film I saw with my friend/rec worker when we started out first contract. It looked interesting because I find I like *SOME* films that center around certain sports and also because Eugene Levy was in. It seems the entire cast of SCTV has been in quite a few interesting films.I hate Lil Bow Wow, but his acting was decent. I was surprised to see Crispin Glover in it (the only film I ever saw with him was Back To The Future), and this time, he was a NASTY man! Morris Chestnutt was also great. Lil Bow Wow's character made me a bit nauseous at times because he often got on Tracy's (Chestnutt) nerves as well as almost making himself puke with room service! Still, the movie was rather enjoyable. It wasn't one of the best I've ever seen but one young kids should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Nothing But Pure Fun!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Bow Wow made an excellent performance in the movie Like Mike. Like Mike is nothing but pure fun! I really liked it! I personally would say that the entire family should watch this movie! Bow Wow did a good job being Calvin Cambridge because he knew how to act, and some people would say that he could'nt act, but I dont care. Like Mike also had Crispin Glover, the guardian in the foster home for Calvin and his friends (Murph & Reg).Audiences are going to love this movie because it's funny and warm hearted at a few times. I really enjoyed Like Mike because this is every kids dream, to play in the NBA. I recommend Like Mike to all ages, so therefore I would give it a 8/10 "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a funny movie. Anyone would enjoy, especially with good performances by very talented actors, such as Lil' Bow Wow, Morris Chestnut, Crispin Glover, Jonathan Lipnicki, Anne Meara, Robert Forster, and Eugene Levy. Plus, for basketball lovers, there is the appearencs of famous basketball players such as Jason Kidd and Allen Iverson. As I said, this movie was funny. Li' Bow Wow was funny, Crispin Glover played in an excellent role, like when he did Back to the Future, and Eugene Levy was funny in the scenes he was in. This movie is very entertaining and something the whole family should see. "},{"Title":"Good family film","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not too old, but I'm not a kid. So I saw that my mom rented like mike. I liked basketball so I thought I would give this film a chance. I watched it and loved it. It's about a kid who gets these shoes that make him like mike. He is an orphan that sells candy at basketball games so the kids can watch tv. The only reason they do this is to make their guardian rich. He runs into the coach and tryes to sell him a candy bar. He does so he gives the kid tickets to a game. He goes to it and the owner wants this star player to play against a fan to increase ticket sales. Calvin the kid with the shoes gets to play the star. He wins and gets on the team. This is were all the fun begins. Overall 7.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rookie of the Year of the basketball court.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When Lil Bow Wow is given a pair of shoes supposedly worn by Michael Jordan, he finds that he has the talent to help the local pro basketball team, as well as the orphanage raising him.The scenes on the court give a sort of wishing status to everyone and the time he spends at home tug a few heart strings.  Morris Chestnut plays the team's star player who is forced to take on the kid when he signs a contract as a crowd draw and ends up on the team for the season.  The only question I got is, which 6 foot-plus player got cut from the roster to make room for someone 4 1/2 feet tall?A delight for all ages, as kids will eat this one up.  The geometry session at Chestnut's house is a riot.  Dreams come true for Lil Bow Wow and the story has its usual bad guys to take the movie the whole length.  The movie is not anything spectacular, but it's a good time killer if you're in the mood for something light-hearted. "},{"Title":"Wicked","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that 'Like Mike' is a very good film . It has an excellent blend of Acting ages, basketball and Music! It' funny but not over the top! And Jonathan Lipnicki is well cute in it!!!! Well done!! "},{"Title":"entertainment that's been seen before","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Derivative but immensely likable comic fantasy about a compassionate young orphan who dreams of one day having a family to call his own. He stumbles upon an old pair of sneakers with the initials MJ, but they turn out to be more than just a regular pair of sneakers and magically enhance his basketball skills. He uses these skills to make it to the NBA, where he quickly becomes an overnight sensation and bonds with his adult teammates. The film's formula is familiar and predictable, but it works, with rapper Bow Wow a very appealing lead, surrounded by a solid supporting cast and amusing cameos from real life NBA players. Perfect fodder for kids, by the numbers for adults. **½ "},{"Title":"Hmmmm","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a cute movie about a orphan (Lil Bow Bow) who get magical shoes. He plays in the NBA for the Knights (I guess they replaced the Lakers or something) I did smile a couple of times watching this movie.Any way this movie is a rip off of Rookie of The Year and Angels in The Outfield. Watch this movie and you will agree.Rating Five Thumb "},{"Title":"Where's Mike","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  You think a movie based on a pair of Micheal Jordan shoes could get the man to appear in a cameo. But, we don't get to see him. There are some cameos by other NBA players.  The plot to this movie is nothing original.  It does have a couple of cute kid moments. I don't think to many adults will like this. But, I'm sure kids would be fascinated by a kid who gets to play in the NBA.  Lil Bow Wow is rather annoying in this and his acting was awful. He looks like he's reading off cue cards. But, I do like Jonathan Lipnicki.FINAL VERDICT Not to appealing for adults, but young kids will like it. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Fun!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie expecting a kid playing basketball but got more. More as in a warming sub-plot of a kid wanting to be adopted and find a home for himself.  I would highly recommend this as a family film, it was a lot of fun to watch.  Besides, the kids got game! "},{"Title":"Movie is just like the old movie Rookie of the year but still fun to watch","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie reminded me of an old movie rookie of the year but still this movie was fun to watch. There is a lot of humor in this movie which leaves the audience glued to their seats. This movie is a great family movie. Recommendable. "},{"Title":"It's Better Than the IMDb Votes Would Make You Think","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I voted on this film only because I came across it while looking for something else and was surprised to discover that IMDb voters have mostly disliked it.This is an utterly silly but utterly charming film.  It does not have a sophisticated bone in its body but it is sweet and funny.  Both my nine year old grandson and I liked it a lot. I recommend it, especially if you can see it with a kid -- 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bow WOW!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was so good! I was suprised how good of an actor Bow wow was. For his first time acting I think he did extremly good! I mean I know it would be! I think this was one of my favorite movies. Any NBA/NCAA or just basketball fan'll love this movie it was great! "},{"Title":"'Rookie of the Year' for Basketball","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie reminded me exactly of the movie 'Rookie of the Year'. It had the same plot basically A young kid gets the opportunity of a lifetime to be a sports star at such a young age. This was a great movie though! Lil' Bow Wow did a surprisingly great job! And Jonathan Lipnicki was great too! 'Like Mike' is a great film for all ages! It is both uplifting and funny. You'll really enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"They finally made a kids movie that passes the grade!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I got the chance to see this film with the capacity crowd of over 130 screaming teenage girls(in which the ones in the audience were under 13 years of age or less)and several young men during a private afternoon screening on a Monday morning prior to the film's opening date. This was a film that was great with adults as well as with children of all ages especially when the star of the film is no other than rap superstar Bow Wow. Its about time they made a film where not only is it warm-hearted but keeping it clean and funny at the same time. However, there is one small language scene that is in this flick,but overall it is something parents can take their kids to see. This is a great flick that features not only several NBA players,but also players from the WNBA as well. The movie and its story premise is based on the 1948 classic of The Red Shoes,where in this case our character finds a pair of M.J. shoes that makes him invincible whenever he puts them on. "},{"Title":"Escapist fun","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Much like most sports movies, the only  way to keep from rehashing typical sports  stories is along the lines of outright fantasy  and escapist sentimentalities. Sure, this  film isn't the best film to ever come out about  kids, but it proved to live up to its farcical  and comedic nature. Like the inner child in  all of us, it is really hard to look down at the  youthful exuberance of make believe. Lil Bow  Wow's performance WAS natural and superb,  considering the only acting he has ever done is  for his mundane music videos. The player  cameos were also funny, considering most of  them couldn't act worth a lick. Lot's of boffo  special effects, but sufficient nonetheless. Overall,  a decent movie to watch at a matinee price. "},{"Title":"a SLAM DUNK good time.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A good family film. Okay maybe it seems like a rip off of Rookie of the year, I mean the stories are somewhat similar. Hey isn't imitation the highest form of flattery. Young rapper Lil' Bow Wow and Morris Chestnut have fun comic chemistry. The film starts out with Calvin Cambridge(Lil' Bow Wow) an orphan, who dreams of being an NBA Basketball player, but do to his small stature, it was not coming easy. Till one day he finds a pare of sneakers that have M.J. in them. When Calvin tries to get them off an electricle wire, then lighting hits them. Then the next day Calvin and his friends go a Basketball game. Then Calvin gets picked a little one on one with his favorite player Tracy Reynolds(Morris Chestnut). Calvin suddenly displays amazing basketball skills. He then gets signed to play on the team. A good starring debut for Lil' Bow Wow. A charming film for the whole family. If your a basketball fan. Then see this movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty Stupid","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Now, movies are now run with music superstars.  Britney Spears in Crossroads, Mandy Moore in A Walk to Remember,  Busta Rhymes in (the awesome) Halloween Resurrection,  LL Cool J was in H20 and Deep Blue Sea, Master P was in quite a few films, Snoop Dogg in Bones, Eminem in 8 mile, etc.  Now it's Bow Wow's turn to step on the court.  Hereb is a direct quote from MTV's own Gideon Yago Lil' Bow Wow finds the shoes with the letters MJ inside and has become an all-star basketball player.  Trust me, hilarity ensues.Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! Wrong! I can go on for a while but hilarity doesn't ensue.  The plot is pretty stupid.  Bow Wow and friends find old shoes with the faded letters MJ in them.  They then go to a basketball game and, coincidentally, Bow Wow gets the chance to win some money if he goes head to head with Morris Chestnut, who plays a good basketball player.  Once again, coincidentally, with his good shoes he wins. Now, what are the odds.  Apparently, the letters in the shoes must mean Michael Jordan.  They could've meant Michael Jackson and he could've been doing the moonwalk on the court.  And then he keeps doing awesome, stupidity ensues, stupidity ensues, etc.  The actors give good enough performances but the stupidity hurts it.Overall, I'm having a good day today so I'm not going to kick it too bad and give it that bad of a rating.  Not recommended.  Only for family, it could be good but not for me.  Rating 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An okay family movie, which unfortunately at times loses its point and turns into rather silly NBA promotion","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like Mike is a quite formulaic and cheesy family movie about an outsider who is having dreams of becoming somebody famous and of course his dreams come true. Our hero, Calvin Cambridge, (played by Lil Bow Wow) lives in an orphanage in Los-Angeles, near basketball stadium where his favorite NBA team &#150; L.A. Knights plays (by the way fictitious team, real teams in L.A. are Lakers and Clippers). He also loves to play basketball very much and l this game is the only sweet thing that he got in his miserable life in an orphanage. But he is just an ordinary thirteen or fourteen year boy without any special talent for playing his favorite game. One day his finds old sneakers, which are supposed to belong before to some famous basketball player and he believes that was legendary Michael Jordan. After a short confrontation with his rival those sneakers get stuck on a power line and when Calvin is trying to get them back the lightning hits near him and he is shocked by power line. Soon he realizes that his shoes are magic and they give him extraordinary abilities for playing basketball and he wins an exhibition match against real NBA star. There is nothing surprising that after such win he become a player of his favorite team Knights and his life is going to change. The magic promised in the beginning of the story is gone within few minutes and we just see how young celebrity is trying to get into contact with his new partners and fragments of NBA matches with our hero who easily become one of the best players in the whole league and jumps like a &#133; well I don't know exactly like what but one is obvious that he beat some records with his jumps. So Calvin became a NBA player and a celebrity but somehow he has no contract and he still has no any money. Sense of reality is obviously completely lost here. Numerous and mostly silly appearances of actual NBA stars throughout the movie (though some basketball fans obviously would like that), with mentioned scenes of basketball matches and inside the team scenes make that some parts of the movie look like a some kind of silly NBA promotion. And all those basketball elements of the story most of the time easily overshadow all possible morale messages in Like Mike. Well, I believe I have paid enough attention to the movie plot and negative elements and flaws. Despite all above mentioned besides its primitiveness Like Mike is a harmless movie (today that already means something) and not so rude, compared to some recent family friendly movies. The acting is mainly mediocre (the bad guy was really pathetic) with Morris Chestnut (as Tracey Reynolds) as the only bright spot. The chemistry between his character and Lil Bow Wow (who also in some moments shows some acting abilities) is one of a few really decent moments about Like Mike. In the conclusion if you are looking for a good family movie I would rather recommend to find something else than Like Mike, though some kids might like it, particularly die-hard basketball fans.My grade 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Racist Plagiarism","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Seen this movie before? Yep, it's called Rookie of the Year.  When you copy another idea, theme, or entire story, even your own, it's known as plagiarism. (And yes, I know it's done all the time, and every time it's without the writer's consent, it's plagiarism.)  When you do it with the villains all being white and/or stereotypical (the quasi-mongoloid white bully and the show tune singing white prospective parents were particularly infuriating)and the heroes all black and ebonics validating, it's racist.No, it's not reverse racism, it is simply racism. If this movie were made with the protagonists as white and the antagonists black the producers (and everyone associated with the production) would be persecuted, prosecuted, and burned in effigy. As an aside, did anyone else notice that every time the little kid dunks the ball he hangs from the rim, and you never see how he gets down? "},{"Title":"Stereotypical, dubious Like Mike tosses up an airball","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The plot of a young Los Angeles orphan becoming an overnight basketball sensation after lacing up a magical pair of Michael Jordan's old Nikes is not the most impractical element of Like Mike. That would be nearly everything else in this predictable, and borderline repugnant, family comedy whose apparent purpose is to just be one big commercial for every product under the sun, ranging from Krispy Kreme doughnuts to a handful of NBA superstars who really have no reason to appear on the film's posters (or in the film, for that matter). 14-year-old Calvin Cambridge (rapper Li'l Bow Wow, who has since dropped the Li'l) is randomly chosen during a halftime promotion to go one-on-one with star player Tracey Reynolds (a visibly bored Morris Chestnut) of the L.A. Knights, a team that plays Rock & Roll Pt. 2 during blowout losses. Calvin discovers he can slam dunk from the foul line and easily drop three-pointers like free throws while wearing his prized shoes, for which he braves a lightning storm to pull off a telephone wire (just one of many questionable scenes in this movie that will draw the consternation of parents everywhere). He's promptly hired as a full-time player to boost sagging attendance and is reluctantly mentored by Reynolds about the joys of room service. When not preoccupied with basketball hijinks, Like Mike contains standard subplots regarding Calvin's longing for adoption, his friends' (including an annoying Jonathan Lipnicki) jealousy of his success, and Reynolds battling personal problems; all are concluded with unrealistic and cheap sentimentality. Bow Wow shows surprising charisma as an actor while looking handsome in three-piece suits, but he ends up shouldering the burden of an anemic script and is what keeps the movie from capsizing altogether. Like Mike indeed resembles Jordan's early NBA days it's a one-man show. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Save Your Money","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Better titled Li'l Bow Wow Portrait of an American Moron, this film's primary job seems to be reinforcing negative stereotypes.But then again, the only cause you would expect a movie about magical basketball shoes to advance would be stupidity, and only here does it not disappoint.  I won't waste your time with the plot, because there isn't one. Suffice it to say that this flick continues that uniquely American brand of ludicrosity that suggests being uneducated and inarticulate is great as long as you can excel at sports.  This idea is bad enough when foisted on adults -- much worse when our kids follow the lead of rap-prodigies whose marginally-intelligible, slang-choked dialogue reinforces the fact these kids should be attending school instead of ... um ... entertaining.But we can't pin the full weight of this fiasco on Li'l Bow Wow and the rest of the cast -- the rightful shoulders are those of the producers, writers, and directors.  (Incredible that they hired writers for a basketball-jones rehash of The Red Shoes!)Even if your one dream in life is shooting hoops, save your hard-earned bucks and wait for this garbage on Showtime.  If you've already seen it ... well, you shoulda bought fireworks.  At least then you could stand watching your money burn up. "},{"Title":"Predictible sports comedy","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Silly basketball comedy for kids with junior league rap star Lil' Bow Wow (hopefully not his real name) playing an orphan who finds magical sneakers and suddenly becomes a basketball star. Similar in theme to the baseball film Rookie of the Year from a few years back, this one hits all the familiar storypoints fairly predictibly. However, it is entertaining and young kids who are into sports will enjoy it. GRADE C "},{"Title":"Run of the mill family film","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Lil Bow Wow does a good acting job, but Crispin Glover steals the show. Crispin Glover plays himself to perfection.  He doesn't talk very much, only when it serves his own purposes.  Morris Chestnut is also very good as he is one of my favorite actors.  Jonathan Lipnicki's character is annoying and should be kidnapped instead of adopted.  I'm glad they didn't have Bow Wow dunking too much, because it does look fake.  A good family film.  4/10 Fair "},{"Title":"about exactly what i suspected","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie has been done before many times, so parents, you know if it's something your kids would like.  if they like comedies and are into sports, but not enough to know that much of what happens in the movie isn't legal in basketball.  i saw it with my younger cousin, who's 7, and he loved it, but i'm guessing no one older than 10 or 11 would really like it that much.  sure there is something there for slightly older kids, a few jokes that are pretty funny, but not enough to keep them really interested in the movie.  it's pretty much just slap stick and catch phrases and heart warming fun.  lil, or i guess he's just bow wow now, did a really good job though.the one thing that suprised me besides bow wow's acting was that they never did the whole it's not really the shoes preaching thing.  sure, the shoes broke in the end, with 10 seconds to go, but no one ever said it wasn't the shoes!  you had it in you all along, you just never knew it!  all you had to do is believe in yourself and you could make your dreams come true!  now go out there and try your best! ...which is a good thing, i guess, because that gets kind of annoying "},{"Title":"One of the worst films for so many reasons.","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like Mike is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The plot in particular is awful.OK, let me explain the plot of this awful movie. An orphan, played by Lil Bow Wow, finds a pair of shoes that used to belong to Michael Jordan. The shoes git hit by lightning and whenever this kid wears them he has the abilities of Michael Jordan. Yeagh.............. So then the plot is pretty predictable, he plays great, makes an NBA Team, and helps a bad team to a better record.The plot is just so illogical. Most sports movies are about underdogs that work hard to get better. The whole Idea of a kid finding shoes that make him better and that is the ONLY reason for him to play good just bugs me. Another thing I have an issue with is how good the shoes make this kid. If it gave him the abilities of Michael Jordan, he would not be this good. Do not get me wrong, Jordan is great, but Jordan was not as good as this kid is by wearing the magic shoes. I mean, what type of message is this film supposed to send. Find magic shoes and it will help you to succeed in the NBA. Stupid.Also I really do not like Lil Bow Wow all that much. I mean just look at his name. It sounds like a dogs name.The ending is predictable and terrible. After his shoes break in the last game of the year, he quits after the game even though the team made the playoffs? So basically he is admitting he is nothing without the shoes, which is what he is. I just hate the plot SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO much. Stupid magic shoes. And he never really tells any of the players why he can not play in the playoffs. They do not even care. Horrible.Do not watch this film. Ever. "},{"Title":"Sappy formulaic story...","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" 1st watched 4/19/2005 - 4 out of 10(Dir-John Schultz) Sappy formulaic story about an orphan who gets everything he wants and as well gets to be like Mike(Aka. Mister Michael Jordon) when he puts on his magic shoes(that may have been owned by a young MJ) and goes on the basketball court. What I didn't like about this movie was how the bad guys were really bad, the good guys were really good and everybody smiles up to the end about the poor unfortunate orphan who makes it. I'm not saying that this is a horrible movie but it just follows too many of the same patterns as others like it. The young rapper, Lil Bow Wow, does an OK job with this acting stint but the rest of the cast is kind of just there and playing characters that their used to playing. I really wanted to like this movie as much as I like the game of basketball but it just didn't quite cut it for me. "},{"Title":"bland rip off","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although this movies main characters were likeable enough the movie was a total rip off of the magic football boots movie which I forget the name of.My kid stared blankly at this movie after about ten minutes of it.Deserves to go straight to video. "},{"Title":"Like Hey Mike, It`s All Been Done Before","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It is really sad when a 15 year old kid can ride the coat tales of his uncle (Snoop Dog) not only to a record career but now a film career. This film is the typical tale of a poor kid becoming a star, through of all things, shoes (which he climbs up a tree in the middle of a lightning storm to go get, I am sure parents will love that part). After he gets his magical shoes he becomes a super basketball player. Now if this plot sounds familiar, well it is, it`s call Rookie of the Year and it was done many years ago.To be fair the acting isn`t half bad, I would definitly consider Lil`Bow Wow a better actor than rapper. I do feel bad for his co-star Morris Chestnut who has the look of I just don`t want to be here on his face for the entire film. Chesnut is a good actor and deserves more than this. I won tickets to screening of this film, but after watching it I didn`t feel like a winner, I felt like I wanted the 90 minutes of my life back. "}{"Title":"One of the worst sport movies of all time!","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Like Mike seems to be a bad combination between Rookie of the Year ,There's Only One Jimmy Grimble and Angels in the Outfield (which were much better). Almost everything in this movie is ridiculous (even for little kids) and there's not ONE original idea in it. In addition to that, the movie presents good actors like Crispin Glover, Eugene Levy and Robert Froster in a bad light, not to mention, all the NBA players that disgraced themselves with their appearance in this movie.In conclusion, i really recommend not to watch this movie, unless you really have to.I gave it 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You made a bad choice","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is good if you feel like watching a horrible movie to laugh at with friends. Only watch this with friends. If you watch it alone, it's like drinking alone (or will make you want to drink). This movie has nothing special about it. If you're considering this movie to watch or buy, just go get Rookie of the Year instead. Same movie, better everything. "}]