[{"Title":"All around enjoyable murder mystery and human interest drama","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"65 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Blood Work Eastwood plays an FBI agent, recovering from a heart transplant, who is asked by the sister of the murdered  woman whose heart he received to find her killer. The result is  surprisingly even and interesting murder mystery in which we see Eastwood piece together the evidence pointing to the killer while dealing with heart transplant issues and making nice with his pro bono client. The film has fewer plot holes than most murder mysteries; leans more toward human interest than derring-dos; and is another example of Eastwood successfully pushing out the age envelope in a self-directed film product. Recommended for more mature couch potatoes into murder mysteries. (B) "},{"Title":"Still grand to see Eastwood be his old cool self, albeit with a bad ticker","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood's 20th feature directed and starring himself, Blood Work, is a good sign in times of recent thriller drek. Here is Clint, 72 years old, and actually doing the right thing; being the old sort of Dirty Harry-esquire type of cop while still being realistic with himself. Truth be told, he won't do movies forever, much less be a cop with almost all the right moves, and here we see him as FBI Agent Terry McCaleb in the beginning try and climb a fence to catch a code killer (which resonates from past Eastwood projects) and he collapses from a heart attack (sad but oddly accurate). He retires, and two years later a woman comes forth to him asking for help in finding a killer. And anyway, what makes Blood Work so fascinating (if only up to a point if seen more than once) is that it's a well crafted thriller, one that has the usual police procedural from many years back, a bit of a romance with Wanda DeJesus, and comic relief from Jeff Daniels. So, if you decide to see this latest installment in the sprawling career of Clint Eastwood, keep in mind that it has all the style, music, and nostalgia even in donuts that it had back in the day 30 years ago. And maybe it's just me, but it will be hard not to grin when you see him grab a gun. B+ "},{"Title":"Blood Runs Dry by the Latter Acts.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's direction sadly loses its way late in this otherwise suspenseful drama from the co-writer of L.A. Confidential (Brian Helgeland). Eastwood is a famous detective, but a massive heart attack just as he is about to catch a crazed serial killer forces him to an early retirement. Fast-forward a bit and Eastwood has received a new heart from a woman who has recently passed away. Slowly, but surely Eastwood's body is accepting the new organ and it appears that a healthy recovery is imminent. Things change though as a Hispanic woman (Wanda De Jesus) pays Eastwood a visit one day and explains that his new heart come from her younger sister, a woman who was killed in a convenient store. Quickly it becomes crystal clear that the killer in the store is in fact the same man who eluded Eastwood earlier. Now Eastwood is back one last time with a score to settle. Through Eastwood's journey he has to indulge a pesky neighbor (Jeff Daniels) who  wants to assist in the case, dodge cops Paul Rodriguez and Dylan Walsh and convince doctor Anjelica Huston that he owes De Jesus his time and help. Blood Work does do well for the majority of its running time, but the punchline comes way too fast and the finale is unsatisfying to say the least. Eastwood is pretty good as usual and Daniels is excellent in a comical supporting turn. Everyone else though ends up struggling to keep their intensity up as the production progresses. The Hardy Boys routine and the unnecessary blossoming romance between Eastwood and De Jesus make Blood Work play more like a television movie of the week than a theatrical release. With all this said, Blood Work does do enough good things to keep the audience watching and intrigued---most of the time anyway. 4 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Good For One Viewing","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I found this to be one of those films I really enjoyed on the first viewing, but once you know the surprise ending, the second viewing isn't nearly as good.It's a typically-entertaining Clint Eastwood film. He makes few dull movies, I'll say that for him. Now that he's gotten older, his weather-beaten face makes him all the more interesting to view.I didn't find Anjelica Huston's weather-beaten face, however, as believable. Her tough demeanor, including vocabulary, is not something a doctor would have, as she plays here. Paul Rodriguez also is stupidly profane in his role but he does have a few funny lines.The main attraction of the story is the twist near the end so, as mentioned, one look is just about right for this film...and it is worth one look f you want a decent diversion for one night. "},{"Title":"The cast make it work but the ending is just so disappointing","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clintwood's 'Blood Work' may not be the best nor most stylish of its genre but it remains enjoyable for the most part mainly because of the cast. It's quite a simple film but I found the end revelation disappointing and the last half hour is a little too dramatic. During the entire first hour, Eastwood cleverly avoids excessive violence and gore and smoothly lets the tension build. Clintwood is supported by a brilliant cast that includes the fabulous Anjelica Huston, the elegant Wanda de Jesus, the charming Tina Lifford and the funny Jeff Daniels. The cast does well but Daniels's performance is ruined by the overdone last half hour. The film rests on Eastwood and it's great to see him play such a role at 71 and pull it off so well. The jazzy background score gives 'Blood Work' a classy touch. Thus, to sum it up, one can expect a simple but engaging whodunnit thriller which is ruined a bit by the ending but Eastwood and his cast prevent it from being a waste of time. "},{"Title":"My heart is yours.","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Blood Work' sees actor/director Clint Eastwood ease into a more traditional, mature and work-heavy detective story based upon Michael Connelly's novel. We follow that of FBI profiler Terry McCaleb on the trail of a serial killer who likes to play games with him, before his heart eventually gives up on him during a chase. He's a cardiac patient that receives a heart from a murder victim, and the donor's sister asks him to come out of retirement (which is two years after the heart-attack) to use that second chance to help find her killer.After an excellently dark, brooding opening it goes onto settle for a cruising old-fashion, but by-the-numbers thriller. It's the eerie mystery that invokes the tension, not the small-added slabs of violence and action. It's a character story. Nothing surprises, but its elaborated make-up and cluey puzzles are absorbingly plotted by Brian Helgeland's elegantly dry screenplay, as we watch the psychical and mental decay first break down, but eventually go on to help rebuild our main protagonist. Mainly through his bond with the lady he's helping out. Even a connection is kind of hinted between the killer and Eastwood's ex-profiler&#133; like the one in 'Tightrope' (1984). The relationship that unfolds and expectations that arose, especially after the killer's unmasking and his cunning intentions being revealed is unnerving in that endearing sense. The psychological torment and involvement is well-judged too. This observation can be seen in Eastwood's rock-like performance, which still shows cracks of vulnerability.Looking comfortable in front of the camera, behind is exactly the same with his economical direction driving the way. Edgy suspense is well-place and timed amongst a gritty backdrop and dreary colour scheme. Lennie Niehaus' soothingly savoury blues score, Tom Stern's sharply pastel cinematography and Joel Cox's swift editing strengthen the already professionally competent production. First-rate performances engulf the feature. Wanda De Jesus strong-willed turn is amiable. Jeff Daniel's lazy; oddball (almost comic) performance is a fine, versatile addition. A cynical Paul Rodriguez and a solid Dylan Walsh are good as two jealous detectives. Tina Lafford is pleasingly sound as a detective/good friend of McCaleb and Anjelica Huston is fiery blunt as Dr. Bonnie Fox.A satisfyingly better than average thriller fable headed by the ever-reliable Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Eastwood is the Anti-Dirty Harry in this elegant and classy thriller...","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While it might not be the most stylish or fast paced manhunt thriller, Clint Eastwood's 'Blood Work' is still a very enjoyable piece of film. Stylish in its' own manner, this drama returns to the yesteryears of filmmaking and displays Eastwood's talent as an accomplished Director. Today's cinema heavily relies on nifty editing effects and fast paced dialogue to retain the interest of the impatient audience, yet Eastwood gives us a refreshing and simplistic tale revolving around the resolution of various dastardly murders.Eastwood stars and directs in this manhunt thriller that still manages to retain the intriguing effect in a film in which the characters; not actions, drive the film. Based on the novel by Michael Connelly, Brian Helgeland (A Knight's Tale, Payback) transforms the novel into a great script. In this film, Eastwood plays the anti-Dirty Harry in typical Eastwood fashion as he is thrust back onto the case of a vicious serial killer two years after retirement.As FBI Agent Terry McCaleb, he is forced off the case after suffering from a near fatal heart attack. Two years after, he is given a new heart and through a freak occurrence with the donor's heart, he is forced back onto the case allowing for an interesting cat and mouse chase.Eastwood has his imprints all over the film as he sticks with Musical composer Lennie Niehaus for his film once again. Niehaus' sporadic and rare musical additions are usually jazz based and open the film in an elegant manner instead of the usual commercialist propaganda that is not needed when opening a film of this nature.Instead, Eastwood treats us to a good old-fashioned hunt in which the mystery slowly unravels in front of the viewer allowing for only the clues to be deciphered. The plot is seemingly eerie and for some reason reminded me of Screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker's work (Sleepy Hollow, Seven) for how deliciously evil and calculated the motives for the crimes are. As a true professional, Eastwood lays low on the violence and while there are only a handful of action scenes, the tension builds as the clues become available and the audience begins to piece the puzzle together.The ingenious script calls for some sold acting and the casting is excellent as Eastwood calls upon Angelica Huston as his perseverant Doctor and Jeff Daniels who at first seems to be only present for comic relief but has a surprisingly more important and unexpected role. Wanda De Jesus and Tina Lifford are also excellent as they round out the important cast members who all play a giant role in the serial killer's meticulous and mischievous plot.As aforementioned, while it might not elicit the suspense thrills one would find in the Eastwood - Wolfgang Petersen collaboration 'In the Line of Fire', the film still is a well-crafted and engineered film that calls for attention. Yet, one point of contention is a love relationship that happens in the film. True  Eastwood is a legend and could do whatever he wants with his films, but somehow seeing a man his age hook up with a younger woman under those circumstances seemed to yell out 'insanity'. Perhaps to others it fit the film, but in this particular context, it seemed trivial and contrived and can make many wonder if Eastwood simply puts those scenes in to make himself appear to be the epitome of masculinity.  In any event, it was a treat to see a 'back-to-basics' thriller that pays off at the end and avoids the formulaic clichés  usually attached to these projects.Giancarlo's Rating **1/2  "},{"Title":"Satisfying, non-think thriller; not a blockbuster for Eastwood","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Retired FBI detective helps a young woman solve the murder of her sister--but he's got a personal motive he himself received a heart transplant from the victim! Not a bad vehicle for producer-director-star Clint Eastwood, convincingly raspy and worn, and still imposing when he has to be. The script is full of police clichés, and the denouement isn't terribly surprising, but Clint has become a reassuring presence on the screen, and his human flaws and realistic aches and pains make him delightfully human. Supporting cast is quite good, making the best out of a routine, unmemorable script. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Decent with unbelievable ending","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found the first 3/4 of this movie actually pretty solid. I quite enjoyed it. Though much of it is quite predictable, I found myself interested in the film... until the end.It's just the complete unbelievability of the ending that ruined the movie for me. I won't put spoilers here, but I just shook my head on some of the scenes... "},{"Title":"See it before","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's really nothing new in this cop drama.  Eastwood plays his patented Tough Cop, mellowed by age and a brand new heart, and does everything you expect him to, including (but not limited to) defying his doctor's advice; chasing a suspect then shooting him while suffering a heart attack, but without once shouting, Stop in the name of the law, or whatever is required, even by the LAPD; having the female lead fall for him, despite an age difference Anna Nicole Smith could relate to; solving the case despite all the obstacles the authorities can throw at him.  This is not a bad movie, it's just not a particularly good one.  If you're hoping for another Unforgiven, or even a Dirty Harry, look elsewhere. But even Clint can't bat 1.000.  "}{"Title":"The Book Really was good. I hope they don't do this to Bosch","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hollywood screenwriters probably object to putting a scene where a witness is hypnotized to get details of the crime. Unfortunately the entire novel pivots on this scene. Instead Clint (who's supposed to be not only a 2 month post op heart transplant patient, but also 42 or so) is dodging speeding cars, wielding shotguns, punching people out etc... Now I agree that much of the investigation in the novel involves Terry sitting at his desk looking over notes and watching videotapes, but if they had kept to the original story they would have had the really suspenseful action sequence and the killer that makes more sense. The only good thing about this movie is that in 2 or 3 novels that Connelly wrote after (with the same characters) they make jokes about how Terry's friend was made to be the murderer in the Clint Eastwood adaptation of their lives. Hopefully when the Harry Bosch series start coming out as films, they will come out more like the dark noir that they are meant to be and less brainless shoot em ups. There's plenty of action in his novels, and he even admits that there is a lot of Dirty Harry in his cop. Anyhow, I highly recommend the books, its sad that this one was represented in such a shallow light. "},{"Title":"The Worst Clint Eastwood Movie Ever Made!","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me be the first to say that I am a huge Clint Eastwood fan. He is the biggest icon in Hollywood, a true legend. That is why it pained me so to see this truly lousy film. I mean, everything in this film is bad. Be it the overacting by Paul Rodriguez, the underacting by Clint Eastwood, the lame story, the endless cliches, etc..**Spoilers**Clint Eastwood plays a former FBI profiler that had to retire when he had a heart attack on the job. When he had his attack, he was in search of an unknown serial killer. Two years later, the sister of the woman whose heart he received in a transplant, contacts him. It seems that here sister was killed by the same killer that Clint was looking for. He feels obligated to find the killer, because of the heart. Well, Jeff Daniels is the co-star of this film. The only thing is that he rarely appears in the first half of the film. Hmmm, a major star, that is co-starring in this film has like no screen time in the first half of the film? Oh, I did mention that the killer is unknown? Hey, do you suppose that Jeff Daniels might be that unknown killer? Nah, that would be way too obvious! Exactly. Clint, what happened? Oh yeah, there is a tacked on love scene that is truly hilarious. * out of **** and that is being kind. "},{"Title":"An example of the detritus that is Hollywood","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a terrible adaption of the great book by brilliant author Michael Connelly. Hollywood producers felt that they had to change a few aspects of the story, including the ending, some of the clues, some character occupations, actions taken by McCaleb, some of the people killed, and the killer. All in all, it was a thoroughly illogical movie, with none of the better elements of the excellent novel. I reccomend that everyone avoid this movie at all costs, and read the book instead. It is immensly better.Don't forget the cannoli. "},{"Title":"Poor, poor Eastwood.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had to avert my eyes when Graciella started kissing McCaleb. It was almost too  horrifying for words. I usually like Eastwood's films, but this was a waste of good  film. "},{"Title":"Really not very good at all...","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was really disappointed by this film. I'm a fan of Clint ever since Million Dollar Baby and Mystic River, both exceptional films, so when I saw this on the shelf next to them, I thought I'd rent it and give it a go. It is a terrible film. Badly acted, badly directed, terrible cinematography and awful score. I won't even mention the plot.I'm struggling to find a redeeming quality, I don't think I can. I turned the film off after 45 minutes, but after watching 15 minutes of an even worse film, The Limey, I decided to put Blood Work back on just to see if it got any better. It didn't. What happened Clint? "},{"Title":"LAME","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood.  He's made a bunch of good movies, a few really good movies, and a couple of great movies.  He's also made a number of stinkers and this is one of 'em.  Plot holes & stupid behavior from the first scene to the last.  If you're thinking about renting this, well, you've been warned. How it got a 6.3 I'll never know. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all cost... (laughable spoilers)","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do yourself a great favor and avoid this film. Unless you want to watch 2 hours of Clint Eastwood rubbing his heart transplant scar. Because that's about all he does. Things get too intense... he rubs his scar. He implausibly falls in love with the woman who's sister gave him the heart... he rubs his scar. He realized who the killer is even though it is painfully obvious to the audience from watching the trailer... he rubs his scar. He remembers he has a scar from a heart transplant... he rubs it. Oh and in the last scene he refers to himself as a Mexican. STAY AWAY! "},{"Title":"It was awful","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was like a spoof of a good Eastwood movie. Why did the other characters keep ignoring the fact that Eastwood had NO jurisdiction to do any of the things he did?  And where did the Terri/Graciella relationship come from? One minute they were acquaintances and the next they were life partners. Completely unbelievable. I feel bad for Michael Connelly, cause the book had to be better than this! "},{"Title":"Clint goes clunk","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Where to start?  The writing's awful plot has holes in it big enough to drive a truck thru, dialogue is totally not natural.The actors mail it in granted, the script gives them bupkus to work with, but they don't even seem to try. They're just reading lines.The characters are not believable the Paul Rodriquez detective is downright cartoonish, and the romantic interests, one current and another strongly hinted at, are notable for the complete absence of any chemistry whatsoever.Eastwood produced and directed this thing, and he's a smart, experienced pro, so it's hard to figure how it ever got to the screen.  I mean, this is the same guy that produced, directed and starred in Unforgiven, probably the best Western I've ever seen.God only knows where his head (or his critical judgement)was when THIS turkey was being hatched.  "},{"Title":"Ruins the book's reputation","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie Bloodwork is written and directed by Eastwood. While I would never criticize Eastwood's acting ability, he sucks ass as a screenwriter.The movie did not follow the book at all, and the book is one of the best books I have ever read. If only they could have captured that on film. The only thing that they got right was using the title.From a movie standpoint, if I had never read the book, I would give it a 7/10. It was a decent murder mystery. But the book brings you into the way McCaleb thinks, and the growing relationship between Graciela and Eastwood.All I can say, is to read the book. You will get a much better experience from it. The book is written excellently and the story unfolds just perfectly. In the movie many things are rushed and just shoved in to try and resemble the book.Book  10/10Movie  7/10 "}{"Title":"NEW HEART; NEW BABE; NEW GUN; SAME CLINT - Fun movie.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One wonders how sick and old Clint's movie persona will have to become before he finally becomes unable to bed the young babe and shoot it out with the bad guy. Well, not yet, although his mortality is surely front and center in Blood Work. As a former FBI profiler, he suffered a heart attack while chasing a serial murder suspect; after a long wait due to his rare blood type he finally got a heart transplant - the catch is he now has the heart of the woman whom that serial killer may have murdered specifically so that McCabe could get the heart. The killer wanted McCabe active as he enjoyed the challenge and the chase. Then, the sister of the murdered woman seeks McCabe's help, and tells him whose heart he has, thus bringing him out of retirement and into the hunt despite his doctor's orders.All the pieces of the plot fit together rather well, except for the plot hole listed below that to me ruled out a major character as a potential suspect.Paul Rodriguez is both ridiculous and obnoxious as an Hispanic detective with a bad attitude. I suppose he was there for comic relief, but I never found him funny, not in the film nor anywhere else. Jeff Daniels dusts off his Dumb and Dumber schtick as the marina neighbor. Tina Lifford is very effective as a helpful Sherriff's deputy, and so is Wanda De Jesus as the rather angry sister who jumps Clint's bones despite the huge transplant scar -  and her own sister's heart beating underneath (or was that a turn-on?).  It is all rather familiar, and basically the same old Clint, but nonetheless a very enjoyable movie and a well-written story. For those who say when will we see a different Clint?, well, we already have in a number of more sensitive films.PLOT HOLEAt the ATM early in the film he unknowingly confronts the actual killer - wearing a woman's crucifix earring in his right ear. Unfortunately, there is a close-up of that same ear subsequently (before we know who the killer is), and it is NOT a pierced ear; thus, I ruled him OUT as a suspect. He could not have worn that earring, and don't tell me he used Crazy Glue. This is a plot hole.    "},{"Title":"Eastwood is right on the view that we propose on Aging,","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story says that the FBI profiler Terry Mac Caleb (Eastwood), suffers a heart attack chasing a serial murderer who has a great attachment to him. Two years later, Mac Caleb has a transplant heart and the donor's sister asks you to inquire about his death. As the investigation unfolds, more murders are happening and as Mac Caleb has returned to action, so has the mysterious murderer.Blood Work will not go down in history as a major Eastwood films as Million Dollar Baby,  Unforgiven or Mystic River  (may be his three best films), but is one of those stories that have its good performance in front and behind the camera will leave a good feeling. The film has good soundtrack and good photography.Eastwood is superb in his work, bringing the character a touch of fragility and reliability, making it accessible at all times. However, the biggest merit Eastwood takes him as a director, to continue showing even minor works like this his good work behind the camera with impeccable rhythm, he remains one of the best directors for the thriller. "},{"Title":"Pretty obvious story, but still watchable","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know a thing about this movie before I saw it. I found it to be an interesting story for the first 45 minutes. Then everything became pretty obvious. They could have done better. But it was still entertaining. All in all It started out good, but became average closer to the end. (6 out of 10) "},{"Title":"No one thought this plot was a little off the wall, huh?","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work stars Clint Eastwood, Jeff Daniels, Wanda de Jesus, Angelica Huston, and Tina Lifford.Eastwood plays Terry McCaleb, an FBI man who chases a suspect, shoots him, and has a near-fatal heart attack. In the next scene, we see him with his doctor (Huston). He's had a heart transplant. He lives on a boat, and he is visited by a woman (de Jesus) who asks him to look into the murder of her sister. He explains that he's retired. She informs him that he has her sister's heart.I was entertained by this film, I love Clint Eastwood, and I love many of his films. This wasn't one of his better ones, but he was good. The plot -- the motive for the killings -- left me cold, as the execution of it seemed chancy, and the reason for it bizarre. Also there was the typical casting error that's always made. I never know why. Really spoils it.I'm sure I'm going to sound like some crazed aggressive feminist, which I assure you I'm not, but here we go again. We've got Clint Eastwood, in his seventies here, chasing people after a heart transplant. He's like Superman. When he was 67, in Absolute Power, he was jumping out of windows. No one questions it, just like no one questions Harrison Ford or any other elderly male actor having costars half their age and still playing leads. Yet women stars are sidelined because of age.The age is now higher, and yes, if you're Judy Dench or Helen Mirren or Meryl Streep, you too can star in a movie. And yes, it's better than it was. It's not good enough. We're lucky that there are people who want to write and produce scripts for these stars, but look at everyone else - Angelica Huston, Sally Field, Meg Ryan, all the way back, whose sell-by date relegates them to character roles.Eastwood was too old for Bridges of Madison Cunty, he was too old for Absolute Power, and he was too old for this. I don't love him any less; I grew up watching him. But the movie world tells us it's natural for your mother to be around her son's age (Angela Lansbury-Laurence Harvey), 14 years older than your daughter (Kate Nelligan-Sandra Bullock), a girlfriend to someone, and then, ten years later, the same actor's mother (Tom Hanks-Sally Field).Once on TV, Kaye Ballard asked a casting agent why a 30-year-old is sometimes cast as the mother of a 29-year old male. The agent said she didn't know, but her husband was 31 and the woman playing his mother on a show was 32. Go figure. There's a 28-year difference between Wanda de Jesus and Clint Eastwood. I want to see Susan Sarandon on screen with her romantic lead 28 years younger. We'd never stop hearing about it. "},{"Title":"McCaleb, happy Valentine's Day","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" BLOOD WORK&#133; 8.5/10 Exactly one week ago I saw Clint Eastwood's Changeling on the big screen. In my IMDb comment of that magnificent 2008 film I wrote the following Changeling is a true piece of work and is together with Mystic River (first place) and Letters from Iwo Jima my favourite Clint Eastwood film from this decade yet I have still to see Flags of Our Fathers and Gran Torino.Actually I had to add both Space Cowboys and Blood Work to those Eastwood films I had still to see but since I was trying to say what is my favourite Eastwood film from this decade I didn't mention Space Cowboys and Blood Work because I though that after seeing those two films I would not consider them as true pieces of work, certainly I think that after seeing Flags of Our Fathers and Gran Torino I will have to consider them as strong candidates for best Eastwood film in my book from this decade.Last Monday I bought some films on DVD; I finally added to my collection one of my favourite films (Oldboy), I added also another Larry Clark film (Another Day in Paradise), Sergei Bodrov's Mongol and Blood Work. I saw Blood Work last night and is not a mind blowing film that can fight with Mystic River, Letters from Iwo Jima and Changeling to become the best Eastwood film from the 00's in my book but actually I liked it a lot, there you have me awake, and extremely entertained, until about 2 a.m., I certainly have to say that this is a worth watching film.Here Clint is FBI agent Terry McCaleb and first time we see him in action is actually what must be his last time. 2 years later he has a new heart, certainly a new opportunity in life, certainly his days as an agent are now more than over. Unknown, of course at least for me, Wanda De Jesus plays Graciella Rivers. Her sister was killed, they never caught the killer and her sister had the same strange blood type of McCaleb, so you know what Graciella will want when she finds that the man who now has the heart of her sister was dirty Harry! So here Clint will be back, of course two years before he was already having difficulties and stuff because of the age but of course he was still a great agent as he still is not much time after had the heart transplant but now he has not badge, he is pretty much a normal old citizen being much more effective than the whole police. We will have McCaleb pretty much having more clues in one minute than the police in all the time since the murder happened and of course McCaleb will find connections, stuff to finally be told something like and the killer was right next to you the whole time.Probably my least favourite part is the last one when McCaleb finds who the killer is and exactly why Graciella's sister was killed. But is still entertaining, yet I liked a lot the first part of the film, mostly when McCaleb is just is starting to do again what he always did (at one point he is like see if I remember how they did this), at one point is really cool since he enters to the office of detective, and old friend of him, Jaye Winston (Tia Lifford) after having a talk with a suspect and is like not only he is back as an agent with no badge but also he has a partner! And Jeff Daniels plays that partner, he will be McCaleb's driver and is the typical who wants to know more about McCaleb's business but he is certainly just the driver. Angelica Huston did an amazing work one year before Blood Work in Wes Anderson's The Royal Tenenbaums (fantastic film, my favourite Anderson by the way) but here she is just OK, is a minor role but still she will be pretty angry with McCaleb and with the woman who made that McCaleb returned to do what he used to but certainly she will understand that a good woman was killed and that McCaleb is basically the only one who can find and f*** the killer.So Blood Work isn't exactly a very clever film, certainly not one of Clint's very best but still I recommend it a lot. Oh and I have to mention the most of the times annoying character Detective Ronaldo Arrango (Paul Rodriguez), I like especially what he says when the killer that McCaleb was chasing when he suffered the heart attack leaves once again and after two years a new message to McCaleb, Arrango is like well, some people get flowers, some people get chocolates, you get a dead guy. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being a fan of Michael Connelly (i'm working my way through his books) I was really looking forward to seeing this movie, especially i'd just finished reading the novel. As others have said, the first half stuck pretty much to what was in the book but there were a lot of unnecessary changes made, biggest and worst of all was changing the role of the killer. For those who haven't read the book, the killer, Buddy No one should have been the computer guy who witnessed the Cordell murder at the ATM, the boat bum should've been a good guy!) The other big disappointment was the total lack of atmosphere in this movie, mainly due to the fact that there was a virtually non existent score! The editing was quite poor too, sometimes making the film seemingly drag along, especially in the action scenes.Altogether a generally poor effort. It's hard to believe this came from the same director as Unforgiven and Million Dollar Baby. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian murder mystery from Clint Eastwood.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I finally got around to watching a tape of this film, and I kinda liked it despite the bad reviews it got.  The story is a bit weak - the movie title gives away too much of the plot, and I figured out the Jeff Daniels angle pretty early on, but it was still entertaining.I think the film would have been better with a few casting changes.  Jeff Daniels just doesn't make it as a psycho killer, and the gun battle at the end of the film seemed a bit ludicrous and unnecessary.  Also, I think the police lieutenant, played by Tina Lifford, would have worked better as Clint's love interest.  There was more chemistry between those two than with the dead girl's sister.  Also, there was too much of Paul Rodriguez in the flick - his bantering with Clint was overdone.Pedestrian, but still enjoyable. "},{"Title":"So disappointed","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie up until the last 15-20 minutes, when the film's conclusion ruined everything that came before it. Sure, it's a very cliched movie, but it's stylish, well-acted, and well-directed. It's a shame the screenwriter couldn't find a better way to wrap up his mystery. The movie's conclusion is dumb, improbable, and for the most part, pretty unbelievable. I liked the way that mortality played into the story, as well the idea of Eastwood's character having the victim's heart. These elements added some great dimension the script's obligations to the Hollywood thriller genre. But in a movie that's all about characters and real emotions between real people, why do we get an ending that is so far from real life? Only in the movies could something like this happen, and it's such an odd transition from genuine thrills and mystery to ridiculous only-in-the-movies-could-that-happen, that it actually made me angry. I am not entirely denouncing this movie, but I recommend it with hesitation. Eastwood does nice work here, so if you're a fan you'll want it to check it out. But this movie proves that a good director can make something out of a bad script, but a bad script can ruin a good director's best work. "},{"Title":"GOOD STORY - BUT CLINT IS GETTING OLD","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good story, and the acting was OK, but I think that Clint Eastwood is getting a little old for this type of story.  He did play a FBI detailer who was recovering from a heart transplant, and he did fit the part as he looked OLD and haggard.  It was an entertaining two hours, and worth seeing.  Think it is time for Clint to hang up his gun and ride off into the sunset. "},{"Title":"Worthy of commercial television- with the commercials...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Took but one look at the trailer and knew this one wasn't for me; saw nothing original happening here. Resisted going. Was pressured. Much. Gave in and went. My instincts were proven correct. The one and only reason to see this one on the big screen is because that's the only way it'll ever be worth watching. I knew who the killer was the moment the actor appeared on screen, and said as much. I was told later that I had been right. (I didn't hang around for what would've been a redundancy I got up and left halfway through it.)   "}{"Title":"WOW","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the worst movie I have seen in at least two years.  This was a fine example of what happens when you allow someone so deep into Alzheimer's to direct a film.  My favorite parts of the film were trite lines such as I'll just let her heart guide me and sudden revelations such as she gave blood!  Don't waste your time.  Time is better spent driving rusty nails into your feet. "},{"Title":"Blood work = bad work...","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't understand how you can make a movie like this, it's not even the same killer as it is in the book!!! Where did the trip to Mexico go where the real murderer is holding prisoners? And what about follow-ups, the new killer (his best friend) appears several times in Connellys other books... So I suppose there won't be any more films based on Michael Connellys great books, I don't think he want anyone do a film after this slaugther. This film was nothing but a big disappointment... I don't recommend this film if you read the book. Even if you haven't read it I will not recommend it, the acting is quite bad too. "},{"Title":"bleak work","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only comment on movies that are really, really, awful and of course this one fits the bill exactly.Several comments below mine hit the nail on the head as to why this movie absolutely stinks predictable plot,no musical score to note of,stereotyped characters (to the point of being racially insulting in my view),long, drawn out, boring scenes that go nowhere,major plot holes.Don't waste your time on this one, it's a bomb. If you do, use the FFwd button like I did; you'll save yourself some time.What ever happened to the days of Unforgiven, Clint? "},{"Title":"A very poor movie from start to finish","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's not often that my wife and I both say out loud This movie stinks while we are watching movies. In this case we found common ground. Blood Work actually plays more like an episode of CSI Miami with the horrible overacting by Wanda De Jesus and the less than mediocre directing by Eastwood. The plot is so obvious with not even the slightest surprise. The foreshadowing is done so poorly, they may as well have just flashed the words FORESHADOW on the screen and it would be less obvious. Not wanting to give anything away, but there is a scene where the actors have just been kidnapped, locked in a derelict ship in the middle of the bay, at night, been shot at by a machine gun, by a serial killer, and they are not even the slightest bit scared. Nothing, no emotion. I hope this is just a hiccup in Mr. Eastwood's otherwise successful career because this is a dog. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian, unconvincing","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film has a limping quality almost from the beginning stock characters - like the wise-cracking, envious cop; the black police officer who has come up through the ranks thanks to Eastwood's character - and dialog straight out of Dick & Jane. That there was going to be a romance between Eastwood & the Graciella was as obvious as her cleavage and improbable in terms of what either character had in the way of interest for the other.  "},{"Title":"The book is much much better","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here, that's to understand why Blood Work is a pity. This text is above all for people who read the book and watched the movie and like comparisons.Warning  SPOILERS AHEAD ! Blood Work is an adaptation of the eponymous and very good book by Michael Connelly. The problem of the movie is the writers and/or the producers made very bad choices in their adaptation of the book.For instance - An egoist Clint Eastwood (or his people) bought the rights of the book for himself, because the start of this story is just great (an ex-inspector, McCaleb, with a transplanted heart inquires about the assassinated woman who gave him her heart! OK, it's just a digest's digest). Clint is much too older, and not only for the character. Why did he just not choose a 40-year one, there are plenty? Clint is not credible at all, unfortunately.- The writers and/or producers made changes about two main characters of the book. First, McCaleb's best friend, Buddy, sees his name changed and he becomes eventually the killer and, secondly, the killer of the book disappears in the movie! (Two characters in the book = one actor/one paycheck in the movie!) In the book, you discover the killer only at the very end of the investigation. So, it's a very, very bad choice and Michael Connelly himself joked (joked, really?) about that in the books following Blood Work, Buddy (still alive) is complaining about his death in the movie. Such a bad idea (not only for him)! - The writers and/or producers deleted the best scene of the book, the one who helps McCaleb to discover who is the killer (I won't say anymore about this scene and the killer! It's so great! Please read the book).- A macho choice. (And why? In the book, it makes possible for McCaleb to get some information!) The woman character, Graciella Rivers, is an ER nurse in the book (which means good education) and in the movie she becomes a waitress (let's say less education). Women belittled, again! The movie is 110 min. of bad choices, bad directing, bad writing and incoherence. Even Eastwood and Daniels are not watchable.Blood Work is a bloody work. I think this kind of story (because of its complexity and richness) would have been much better as a 3-to-4 hours made-for-TV movie, wouldn't it? "},{"Title":"Routine Police Thriller with a few twists","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The summary says it all.   Eastwood plays a cop for the thousandth time in this basically routine police thriller with the one twist that Clint has a heart transplant.  The rest of the plot is predictable as cardboard suspects are killed off one-by-one.  Hard to believe that this screenplay comes from the same man who wrote LA Confidential.  And the supporting cast is somewhat disappointing as Paul Rodriquez over-acts as Eastwood's police nemesis and Angelica Huston over-emotes as Eastwood's cardiologist.  Jeff Daniels is entertaining as Clint's friendly neighbor as are Tina Lifford as his ally in the Sheriff's office.  So while Blood Work is not a bad movie, it is certainly not a good one.  I give it a 6 out-of 10.  "},{"Title":"good but a bit tired like the hero","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  always a pleasure to see clint eastwood .a lot has changed since his debut in 1955. a slow thriller at the beginning then a better pace and a very good hollywood ending..a very monolothic eastwood and a good supporting cast.still a fan of clint.... "},{"Title":"Lousy adaptation of an already far-fetched novel","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The novel is OK, even though a little far-fetched. In the movies, a whole lot has been changed. Names are different, who does what is different and they must have paid Connelly quite a lot to have him accept it. Or maybe he didn't get to read the script until after he sold the rights. It has none of (the little) depth the novel has and it's even more far-fetched. The movie also suffers from quite lousy acting.Since I finished the novel just two days ago, it was all very fresh to me. If the movie is any better to someone who hasn't read the book, I don't know, but I doubt it.Skip the movie and read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Tiresome Eastwood","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Plodding thriller really has no thrills, and all too obvious clues (including the very title itself!!!) take the mysteries out of this one.Eastwood plays a retired FBI detective, the kind of character that you feel you have seen too many times before in other films including ones that Clint has starred in and/or directed...Jeff Daniels and Anjelica Huston play lackluster, forgettable parts that are shamefully below their usual acting standards.The direction appears as tired as the star and the rest of the cast...too many blasé, straight-forward camera angles take away what little interest there is to the story. Eastwood needs some tips from Brian DePalma or he needs to review some Hitchcock films in order to improve his style with this genre. The tension necessary for a film like this to work is completely missing. "}{"Title":"Wait a minute ... (SPOILER)","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Major spoiler follows -Like many other viewers, I guessed the identity of the killer very early into the  film.  It was so obvious, I started to look for his alibi.  He has an airtight one The  killer was babysitting for the kid at the same time that clint spotted his car on the  street and shot it up.So did the killer leave raymond alone while he tailed clint? Or did he bring the  kid along for a gun battle and reckless driving...The SINGLE BIGGEST PLOT FLAW IN ANY MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bloody Gawd Awful","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a piece of trash! Awkward product placements for Krispy Kreme Donuts, Coke and Smith & Wesson. Lousy dialogue. Predictable storyline. Creepy and laughable love scene. This is by far the worst Clint Eastwood movie that I have ever seen, and I am a fan of his films. When the movie studios release this type of garbage, they insult the movie goers. Shame on them for ripping us off. "},{"Title":"The Revenge of the Airport Paperback","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood continues his crusade to put every airport paperback up on the big screen.  I would say that this contains a *SPOILER* except that it is the movie itself that contains it.  It is so embarrassingly obvious who the killer is within three seconds after he shows up that you spend the rest of the movie trying to figure out how he ISN'T the killer.  That coupled with that it takes 130 for the characters to figure out what you are told in EVERY SINGLE TRAILER for the movie.  That said, a further *SPOILER* is that the `code' employed  by the `Code Killer' Eastwood's character is following proves the greatest lame-assed cop out of a mystery since the ending of last week's `Signs.'  Anjelica Huston is misplaced here and one of her main scenes with Eastwood is so badly cut it actually looks like the two of them can't act and we all know that isn't the case.  Helgeland's script is another installment from someone we all really want to be good but just hasn't seemed to grasp the concept of making old conventions look new, instead he just makes other people's movies by rehashing obvious movie clichés and his own by throwing a hundred different genre clichés together in one pot.  Paul Rodriguez justifies his obscurity with a grating, unfunny, one-note-that's-tone-deaf performance.  Jeff Daniels is a lot better than this&#133;I still hope.  Why do I blame all them instead of the source material?  Because it's an AIRPORT PAPERBACK.  I don't blame the people that buy it and finish it between New York and Chicago, and I don't blame the people that forget they were reading it altogether and leave it somewhere.  I blame someone who can make a movie as good as `Unforgiven' for settling for this middling TV-Movie-if-that twaddle and saddling us with it.  Now just wait in your local cinema for the next Eastwood adaptation of a checkout counter bestseller `Paint By Numbers. "},{"Title":"Is there an award for Worst Adapted Screenplay?","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My mouth was open through the entire movie... it bore practically no resemblance to the book Blood Work by Michael Connelly, which was a fairly satisfying read. I know many plot elements fall by the wayside when a book becomes a movie, but this was unbelievable. They wasted so much time on trivial or inconsequential details, but let major ones slide. Some twist ending... I'm sure no one was more surprised than Michael Connelly. This was no adaptation... it was utter mutilation. I wanted to walk out, but I had already paid $9 and decided to see it through to the end. More's the pity. You know how in ancient Egypt, when a corpse was too big for the coffin, they would break its legs to make it fit? This was kind of like that.Ok, so the destruction of the plot aside, how was the movie? Well, I'll tell you. Crappy. Although Clint Squinty Eastwood wasn't too bad as Terry McCaleb (albeit 30 years too old), everyone else was really quite terrible, particularly the wooden performance phoned in by Wanda De Jesus as Graciella Rivers. After a few minutes of her, you just want to punch her. She comes off as a woman who is mourning the loss of her broken fingernail rather than her murdered sister.I won't get into the details, but I'm begging anyone who sees this review, for the love of God, please read the book instead. I'm going to read it again to try and forget the travesty I saw in the theatre today. "},{"Title":"Come on Clint","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Expected better of Clint. Starts off good but spirals downward after the middle part. Bad acting by Jeff Daniels and Anjelica Huston. Plot and charters don't ring true. No doctor is going to tell you to get lost and drop you as a patient if you're not doing your best to take care of yourself. Jeff Daniels is over the top and isn't believable and the Paul Rodriguez as Detective Ronaldo Arrango is painful to watch. Bad casting decision putting a comedian in an adversarial role. Paul stick to stand up plz. Plot is very predictable, 10 minutes in I figured out who was the serial killer and his motives. The end is the usual Hollywood ending. The part that Wanda De Jesus holds the guy's head under water was so cheesy I laughed out loud. Come on Clint how could you do this after Unforgiven? "},{"Title":"A mystery so lame, Nancy Drew would nab the killer in the first reel","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man, this is weak!  Solid cast of familiar faces apparently strapped for cash (Huston & Daniels shame on you!) flounders with a script so bad and predictable, it almost plays like a dry satire on movie mysteries.  Eastwood's character is supposed to be a master criminal profiler for the FBI but cannot put two & two together until way too late.  The original concept is a good one but the finished result is an embarrassing waste of talent. "},{"Title":"Clint needs to stick to tough westerns for he has the drama of a old log.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this film was ever considered good.  Clint, with all due respect, couldn't show drama unless it was a tough guy role.  I saw the old westerns and I thought he fit his characters to a T as if the story lines were written around him (except for Unforgiven 1992 which was a real turd also).The movie was akin to a TV movie.  You could even tell where they would have had the commercial breaks.  The real mystery of the film was who the killer was and what his or her motive was but while watching I found myself not caring.  A fundamental plot point of a movie is if you want the audience to care about a emotionally hurt, dying, or dead character you must first make the audience have some emotional connection to that character, otherwise they (the audience) don't care when the character dies or has emotional trauma.This movie was a last attempt for Hollywood (and Krispy Kreme) to squeeze the last ounce of marketability out of an old worn out actor.  Some actors' flames burn quickly and bright but this one is a slow tiring burn to the point you don't recognize him any more.For those of you that think this movie was good you are the soul reason Porkys 1,2, and 3 are still on movie rental shelves. "},{"Title":"Everyone involved in the movie should be ashamed","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went and saw this movie with reasonable expectations.  I thought it would be entertaining, but with about as much substance as one of those books you buy at the airport.  I wish it had been even that entertaining.  First of all the plot of this movie is ridiculous.  Clint Eastwood gets a heart transplant from a murdered Mexican woman, and then falls in love with her sister.  The acting is horrible, with awful portrayals and stereotypes of Mexicans.  The characters make a deliberate attempt to use the phrase Blood Work at every chance they get.  Every time Clint Eastwood sees someone who could possibly be the villain he shoots at him, a point which seems almost comical at times.  The acting in this movie is ranked somewhere between junior-high drama and soft-core porn.  Even Angelica Huston is 2nd rate.  The editing in this movie is quite poor, there is no flow between the shots, and it feels like there is no continuity.  I have seen some pretty bad movies in my time, but I will have to wait a long time until I saw a movie as bad as Blood Work.   "},{"Title":"A good underrated decent action Eastwood thriller!","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a an action mystery movies, filed with intense and getting a view an intention, than ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Blood Work (2002) is a good solid action thriller from Clint Eastwood based on the novel Blood Work from Michael Connelly. In my opinion this movie is very underrated, is not one of my favorite Clint Eastwood flicks but it is still watchable and I will still watch it. The film is about a retired FBI Director Terry McCaleb (Academy Award and Golden Globe-winner Clint Eastwood), having recently undergone a heart transplant, retires to his boat in the L.A. harbor. However, he is soon coaxed out of retirement to assist a woman (Wanda De Jesus) in tracking down the person who killed her sister. As fate would have it, it was the woman's dead sister who gave Terry his new heart. While investigating the murder, Terry discovers that it may have been committed by a serial killer that he had been tracking while with the FBI -- a killer who has recently begun killing victims with Terry's blood type.The movie starts mostly with the murders, Terry McCaleb FBI agent was hunting down for years a killer who a psychopath dubbed The Code Killer. A veteran FBI profiler, McCaleb is unrelenting in his pursuit of justice and unequalled in his success at tracking and catching murderers. But as he closes his latest adversary--a psychopath dubbed The Code Killer by the media--McCaleb is felled by a massive heart attack and forced into early retirement. Two years later he gets tracked down by a woman who her sister was killed down on a Valentine's Day and he got heart transplant by her, while Terry starts investigating a new lead too another murder drags him. This film has a lot of twists, a lot of action and really intense great mystery who is the killer and this movie and how many are they. It is filled with great suspense and intense. Whilst this is not one of Clint Eastwood's best or more well known movies, it is still a decent outing with a good plot and some good action on occasions. However be warned, it is very toned down in action and language in comparison with his other movies. If you like your movies extremely violent, this probably isn't the one for you.I will still gave it a watch, even tough is not my favorite Eastwood movie but it is in my Blu-ray collection and I don't have a lot of Eastwood's movies mostly classics one that he directed like where Tightrope another awesome mystery thriller from the 80's tough Clint Eastwood did not direct that movie it is closely similar to this one Blood Work, just the movies are both different from each other. I hope someday I will get Tightrope on Blu-ray. I still like it for been one of Clint Eastwood's fans, I will always enjoy this flick even tough is not that good as other movies I enjoy. Retired FBI Director Terry McCaleb is one of Eastwood's best characters tough. Clint Eastwood does everything in this movie he produces, directs and stars in this edgy, acclaimed mystery based on Michael Connelly's novel and scripted by Brian Helgeland. With a superb cast brought to a hard bail playing characters to quicken your pulse and hold you spellbound, Blood Work works exceptional well.Jeff Daniels did a wonderful job as Jasper 'Buddy' No one as Terry McCaleb'a neighbor and friend. Jeff is terrific playing his character and the chemistry between two men's work. I love Jeff in Dumb & Dumber (1994) my favorite best classic comedy from Jim Carrey. A lot of people like Absolute Power (1998) my best favorite Clint Eastwood movie doesn't like, I thought Clint did a wonderful job directing and filming the last good mystery action thriller. Sorry people but I like it a lot especially because it is Clint Eastwood's movie. It has some flaws but it held my interest from beginning to end and left me satisfied. Not the greatest one or the best one it still a good performance from everyone including whole cast. I am giving it an 8/10. Still a good film! Blood Work is a 2002 American mystery thriller film produced, directed by, and starring Clint Eastwood. The film co-stars Jeff Daniels, Wanda De Jesús, and Anjelica Huston. It is based on the novel of the same name by Michael Connelly.8/10 Grade B Studio Malpaso Productions, Warner Bros. Starring Clint Eastwood, Jeff Daniels, Anjelica Huston, Wanda De Jesús, Tina Lifford, Dylan Walsh, Paul Rodriguez, Dina Eastwood Director Clint Eastwood Producer Clint Eastwood Screenplay Brian Helgeland Based on Blood Work by Michael Connelly Rated R Running Time 1 Hrs. 50 Mins. Budget $50.000.000 Box Office $31,794,718 "},{"Title":"Eastwood Tests Positive.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work (2002) Dir Clint Eastwood / Cast Clint Eastwood, Wanda de Jesus, Jeff Daniels, Anjelica Huston, Paul Rodriguez Typical Clint Eastwood fare with a title regarding both his job as a private investigator and the idea that he donated a heart to a woman he learns was murdered during a robbery. Retired until victims sisters appears informing him that his heart was donated from the victim. He suffered a heart attack during the opening chase but survives with the murder victim's donated heart, and now her sister desires his assistance in tracking down the killer. This is not one of Eastwood's best films but it still contains the director's spirit. It is largely formula and the handling of the villain is typical Hollywood revenge. One may wonder if Eastwood was making a statement with regards to his ageing and the physical demands of a career full of heroes. Wanda de Jesus as the victim's sister is the only interesting supporting role despite predictable elements. Jeff Daniels is cardboard as a neighbour living in a houseboat. Anjelica Huston is flat as Eastwood's cautious doctor. Paul Rodriguez is cast as another detective. Basically Eastwood carries the film allowing hardcore fans to identify. While not one of Eastwood's great films, it is still well crafted on the production end and well filmed. Theme regards setbacks, which fans will wish to donate time too. Score 6 / 10 "}{"Title":"functional police procedural","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" FBI profiler Terry McCaleb (Clint Eastwood) is retired after having a heart attack while chasing a suspect down. He's living on a boat next to friendly neighbor Buddy No one (Jeff Daniels). After his heart transplant, Graciella Rivers (Wanda De Jesus) tells him her sister was killed and he has her heart. McCaleb investigates and finds the killer has killed others before. Detective Ronaldo Arrango (Paul Rodriguez) is downright hostile and with partner Detective John Waller (Dylan Walsh) are leery to help him. Dr. Bonnie Fox (Anjelica Huston) quits as his doctor telling him his heart can't take the work load.The killer is pretty obvious. The case is pretty much every day TV police procedural. The movie is a little slow and a little long. Clint is good as the old grizzled retired cop with health issues. It's a function murder investigation but nothing that stands out too much. "},{"Title":"functional police procedural","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" FBI profiler Terry McCaleb (Clint Eastwood) is retired after having a heart attack while chasing a suspect down. He's living on a boat next to friendly neighbor Buddy No one (Jeff Daniels). After his heart transplant, Graciella Rivers (Wanda De Jesus) tells him her sister was killed and he has her heart. McCaleb investigates and finds the killer has killed others before. Detective Ronaldo Arrango (Paul Rodriguez) is downright hostile and with partner Detective John Waller (Dylan Walsh) are leery to help him. Dr. Bonnie Fox (Anjelica Huston) quits as his doctor telling him his heart can't take the work load.The killer is pretty obvious. The case is pretty much every day TV police procedural. The movie is a little slow and a little long. Clint is good as the old grizzled retired cop with health issues. It's a function murder investigation but nothing that stands out too much. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Crime/mysteries, that's the kind of movies I normally enjoy the most and when Clint Eastwood directs it and plays in it then I think you can say you're in to watch a good movie. It was maybe not his best movie ever but I surely did enjoy it even though I figured out who was the killer long before you're supposed to. Makes me a good detective I guess. The only things that bugged me were the performances of Wanda De Jesus and Paul Rodriguez. I thought their acting was mediocre at best. The star of the movie is of course Clint Eastwood. He's still got it, you can't fault him on anything. His usual rawness is his trademark and it still works perfectly. A good movie to watch once. "},{"Title":"It's So Very Close","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What starts off as a traditional detective hot on the case of serial killer becomes something more when the donor heart of a victim is put into the body of the detective. Yes, this is far- fetched but in the hands of Eastwood, it's just enough to be this side of mediocre.What doesn't translate so well, are the uneven moments between his detective McCaleb and the other two L.A.P.D. officers with one played inexplicably by Paul Rodriguez. Not only is his comedy inappropriate for the subject matter, a lot of the times it sticks out like a sore thumb. Most of it, as you can imagine, are various versions of which body part he thinks McCaleb should receive next. Just terrible. You almost feel that Eastwood allowed Rodriguez to come up with a lot of his own jokes. They fall flat.The actual plot itself is set up finw, but falls apart towards the end. There are a lot of poorly choreographed shoot outs. Should I say clumsy. And the discovery of new evidence feels like really bad exposition. Specifically when we realize a certain tape and call from 911 is relayed to victim's sister and played like she's the only one in the room who doesn't get it. This is an easy trick so that the actor and blurt this out without seeming like exposition. Or for the audience who is too dumb to put it together. The bigger issue is how lame the discovery is.Overall though, it is a little more unique than your detective movies. A nice twist, a few good moments between actors. On a slow night, it isn't a bad watch. "},{"Title":"Not Eastwood's Finest Work,","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work is a decent movie with a well developed storyline and a great cast.I certainly have come to expect from Clint Eastwood than this,it's nowhere near his finest work,but the movie is still a good crime film,it is quite slow for a long period of the movie,but once everything comes together it is very intense.Clint Eastwood's performance was great and I'm sure he had a field day playing that character,I also appreciated the acting from Wanda De Jesus and Tina Lifford,also Jeff Daniels character was great as comic relief for a very serious movie,although I didn't like any of Angelica Huston's scenes,she just didn't suit her character.The twist towards the end is very good and unexpected,it was certainly the movies highlight,once it happens it seems kind of obvious but you will likely never realise it until it happens.Not Clint Eastwood's finest film,but it's still very enjoyable and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good crime film or drama. A retired FBI agent is asked to track down the killer of a woman who donated her heart to him.Best Performance Clint Eastwood Worst Performance Angelica Huston "},{"Title":"Clint not not make your night or day on this one","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A one off for Eastwood fans, this flick, not so good as his surrounding surefire hits. Eastwood plays a tamer character here in this, but for good reason. Surviving a heart attack while chasing a taunting code killer, he's given new heart, that of a gunshot victim in her last hours. When the victim's sister shows up on his boat, he is asked to track down the callous SOB/code killer. Feeling indebted to the woman and the surviving son of the the victim, as she gave him what Huston (Clint's physician) truly terms as a gift, retired cop, Eastwood, very good on this, does his own off the book investigation with a little help from some rival cops, which includes a chubbier looking Paul Rodriquez, bringing some humor into the film that we're thankful for, throwing some life into what is at most times, a rather dry drama. In fact, it's quite a good performance. Hey, if an ex cop showed up at the precinct with a box of Krispy Kreme's, I'd help him. Daniel's revels in his role so much, you wanna be him. He plays Terry's cooky, bum of a loser neighbor, who assists Clint in his quest to find the killer, for a price, while Huston is just great as always, though is sadly not used enough in this film. What I found wrong with Blood work, they're wasn't enough plot points, suspense, or action, one scene though showing promise, which became an actual shame. It's like the script held back on stuff, to make it simpler. Although I never ever guessed the killer as being the one revealed in the last twenty minutes, some of the shots spoiled by too much darkness, which at one point, the rescue scene becomes unclear. This isn't of the usual Eastwood, ilk. He's string of excellent quality movies from the late nineties, typified him as a directing god, with wonderfully told stories, fictional or non fictional, that were so impressive, this one, being one of Clint's failings, still not a bad entertainer. "},{"Title":"Workmanlike","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work is a decent crime thriller with an unusual and engaging premise - Terry McCaleb (Clint Eastwood) is a retired FBI agent, recovering from a recent heart transplant, who is talked into investigating a murder by the victim's sister. The wrinkle here is that it turns out that the victim is the donor of McCaleb's new heart.Michael Connelly's interesting and gripping novel turns out to be a vehicle pitched ideally at Eastwood's persona of ageing action hero no longer given to action.As a film it more than holds the attention, and is a workmanlike effort from Eastwood as both actor and director. Having said that, it is not particularly memorable - when Eastwood retrospectives are being assembled, Blood Work is one of those which is likely to slip the mind of those putting the retrospective again. There's nothing wrong with it, but there's nothing to make it stand out from the crowd either. "},{"Title":"Servisable and often involving film that has threatened to adopt the position of little more than a footnote in recent years, but is worth seeing regardless.","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work is a workmanlike and fairly interesting thriller from a directorial/writing team whom have done better in the past; have gone on to do far better since and yet the product here remains a solid, engaging piece of work all the same. At the core of it is the grizzled figure and low, rumbling voice of Clint Eastwood; here, doing what he usually does in scything his way through the film thwarting those in need of thwarting and dealing with everything that comes his way, despite some pretty serious health issues. He's working off of an ample enough screenplay which leans delicately towards no-nonsense, pulpy material just as much it does back the other way towards heart-felt and satisfying character study. It is a script from the pen of Brian Helgeland, working from a novel by Michael Connelly, and again is a finely crafted piece of work delicately balancing between two stables; ever tip-toeing over a proverbial line that Helgeland would come to master with the aforementioned Eastwood just a year later in 2003's Mystic River. Where it feels a little fabricated, it makes up for in energy and the craft you feel has been put into manoeuvring this tale in and around the disparate people it covers.The film begins at a blood ridden crime scene, something we observe from up on high thanks to an initial perspective amongst the police and press helicopters. We're granted access to it only when Eastwood's F.B.I. agent Terry McCaleb arrives at a house that has witnessed some unpleasantness. He's an elderly man, seemingly frail but apparently willing to put himself on the front-line of busy-body police procedure; large crowd contingencies and press interviews. McCaleb's dedication to his work is unnervingly highlighted when we witness him chase down an odd looking person wearing more than enough clothes so as to hide identity just off the crime scene; the ensuing running affecting his heart and immediate well-being when climbing and jumping appear to enter the equation. Gun in hand, in an alleyway and in the darkest of night; the heart rate slows when inactivity has taken over and the apprehension appears inevitable, despite the situation clearly more dangerous and nerve-wrecking than before.The winner is his health, the retiring to a boat house moored at a local marina offering sun; the chance to escape to the open sea and a far quieter existence as well as a neighbour in the form of Jeff Daniels' Jasper No one, nicknamed Buddy, whom occupies the adjacent boat and lives off of his father's money doing not much else bar fishing and soaking up sun rays. He's the kind of guy who charges a case of beer an hour for babysitting rates, whereas the overall casting of Daniels actually turns out to be a brave decision as things unravel. But that is later, much later. In the meantime, and in the truest of noir infused fashions, a somewhat exotic Hispanic woman in Graciella Rivers (De Jesus) visits our McCaleb despite his career predicament and offers him the chance to seek out why it was her sister was brutally murdered in a store. In a somewhat dreary manner, the film instills heart into proceedings by providing Graciella with some melancholic guitar string music during the moments of regression to hammer home personal meaning in what is a goofy but strangely affecting tactic.The case is rendered rather more complicated and rather more personal to McCaleb when it transpires he wields her dead sister's heart, following a transplant he had linked to McCaleb's own illness. Begrudginly, and against professional opinion, he accepts; using No one as a working partner in the process. Shortly thereafter, a scene in a local library during which he uses the Internet to look up info on the woman followed by the required taking of medical pills quite clearly highlights, at once, that he's back engaged in police work with the stakes of his own health is what's at stake. We're familiar with most of these characters in that McCaleb already grants us the guy who's out of retirement to do a final job; a hardened, odd looking suspect whom arrives later on has shadows from a blind cast across his face to further menace and of course, is foreign; the partner on the job who's of binary oppositional variety and the potential love interest whom occupies the background space in the form of Rivers. Then there is the police officers whom don't like our embittered lead and, as a consequence, don't know any better as we come to despise them &#x96; Mexican actor Paul Rodriguez does a good job in this respect, playing a detective acting as McCaleb's chief foil and the guy we love to hate.The film enjoys establishing McCaleb as the investigator from another planet, grossly superior to all his contemporaries in that spotting clues; putting things together and working things out appears to be second nature whereas for the rest of the law enforcers, it's as if trying to solve a crime is an alien language to them. Most of his dialogue sounds like small tidbits or key sentences lifted straight out of a Masters lecture on police procedure or homicide case solving; Eastwood himself pausing to take deep breaths in-between churning out the lines that come across as being written by an ex-professional whom used to work within this field showing off all the terminology he knows. But we play along with the text, and entrust that most of Eastwood's pauses are because of the health issues his character has rather than that the lines are too long and self-explanatory and that Clint cannot keep up with it all. The film is a fun causality driven thriller, much in the way of plot and investigation with many-a colourful archetype included along the way, with the whole thing played straight and executed well enough without too much in the way of gross levels of substance. "},{"Title":"A Good Heart","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work casts Clint Eastwood once again with law enforcement although Clint is bowing to age and reality in this film. He's not Dirty Harry here, in fact he's got a real serious health issue, a really unique one for law enforcement.While in pursuit of a fleeing felon, FBI profiler Clint suffered a heart attack it was the culmination of some systemic heart problems and he waited for several months for a transplant. When he gets it Wanda DeJesus comes to him with a request that he look into the murder of her sister which the cops have at a low priority, the sister being at the wrong place, wrong time at a convenience store holdup.Of course with a little investigation Eastwood discovers that that story doesn't fly, the sister's murder is connected with another homicide and the usual jurisdictional police problems prevented law enforcement from seeing the connection. The sister's murder happened within LAPD territory and the other is being investigated by the LA County Sheriff.Eastwood has history with Paul Rodriguez of the LAPD the detective assigned, but he has better history with Tina Lifford of the LA County Sheriff's office. She's a great help to him working it all out and it's a pretty scary connection all these incidents have with Clint.I cannot forget the presence of Anjelica Huston who is Clint's cardiologist and worried about the stress this is putting on her transplant patient. Clint is not doing Dirty Harry style action, but still it's a strain for someone 71 with a heart transplant. And Jeff Daniels plays Clint's neighbor on the marina where he lives on his boat and his man Friday for all the small details of his life.Blood Work is a good thriller and nice to see Clint playing a man who knows his limitations even if he forgets every so often. "},{"Title":"Clint Tracks Down Psycho Killer.","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of Clint Eastwood's later, less ambitious thrillers but still enjoyable. Clint is an aging FBI man who suffers an acute heart attack while chasing a suspect down an alley. He has a rare blood type but, almost miraculously, two murder victims turn up seriatim and one of them provides him with the required heart transplant.Clint is a pretty sick guy. He lives alone on a boat in a marina near Wilmington, outside of L.A. But after being contacted by the sister of the young woman who supplied his new heart, he feels obligated to pursue the case. The police and the other agencies of social control of course discourage him, wanting to slough the case off. But there are a few personal friends who warily lend him support. He investigates the case, while his friendship with the donor's sister grows into a more intense relationship.The murderer is discovered and dies violently at the end, but he and his motive are both perfunctory. (He was responsible for Clint's new heart because he wanted to continue the game they had been playing. Eastwood seems attracted to scripts in which he and the criminal share some sort of bond.) There's some interesting casting. The LAPD lieutenant is Hispanic and at one point shouts angrily at Eastwood that his organ came from an Hispanic woman and What a waste of a good Mexican heart! He also warns Clint that if things go wrong he'd better sign up for an ***hole transplant because he's going to tear him a new one. The character uses his ethnic background but there's nothing politically correct about it.Similarly, the victim's sister is Hispanic but she's not one of filmdom's raving Latina beauties or insinuatingly appealing women like Rachel Ticotin or Elizabeth Pena. She's young and her features are symmetrical but you could find a dozen young women like her in a supermarket.And Eastwood's friend at the FBI, the one who works sub rosa in aid of Eastwood's unofficial investigation, is an African-American woman.Clint makes such casting choices so consistently that they leave the impression that they're not correct or commercial but -- well, Why not? It's not as if Los Angeles doesn't have it's share of Hispanic cops or the FBI it's occasional black woman.Kind of a neat movie without being outstanding in any way. "}{"Title":"Pretty good if routine psuedo-Harry flick...","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this for what it was, and am not quite sure what some your problems are here. Personally, I Didn't quite see who the killer was til maybe halfways through, and kept on thinking-naw that would be lame-don't-but okay, that's the way it was written, deal with it.I liked the slow pacing. I liked the performances of Clint, Wanda De Jesus-yes her fling w/ Clint seemed to be in keeping w/ them just being so close throughout the film-c'mon-and the gal who played the sheriff. All pretty good. Jeff Daniels plays a stoner/slacker type well, and as for Paul Rodriguez-this is why he is a stand-up and NOT a TV star. I admit his stuff was bad Cheech Marin level schtick.Anjelica Huston does a walk-on, we get treated to a couple security camera reels of people being shot, and of course you get the traditional Hollywood 'dude w/ machine gun is out-done by the guy w/ the revolver' routine. That always amazes me-some guy shoots 900 rounds and misses point blank, but that guy w/ the 6 shots-gets his target every time. This does have a by the numbers/late in the game feel to it, but I liked it and so will you if you give it a chance.**1/2 outta **** "},{"Title":"Where are the days of Dirty Harry?","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Good old Clint,with, regretfully, the emphasis on old.Remember the scene from Dirty Harry where Eastwood suddenly appears,out of the blue as it were, dressed as an airline pilot? The movie audience uttered cries of sheer joy and admiration! Well, we all grow older and realizing this to the full, Clint has made a movie which suits his age. No more superman exploits but a movie set at a senior citizen's pace. Enjoyable enough and without any false pretenses, Blood Work offers us an easily digestible story without the true grit however of the former Eastwood movies. Maybe it's Clint's own fault that we remain so critical and demanding he has given us so many really good movies in the past. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but even I figured out who the killer was half way through","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like Clint Eastwood and I thought he was good in this.  The story is pretty good, but it is to easy to figure out who the killer is. The clues we are given are so obvious because the way the camera pans over them and focuses on what we are supposed to notice for several seconds. I mean considering the first 15 minutes is devoted to Eastwood chasing a seriel killer, it would make sense the same killer is going to come back later in the movie.  And the movie also makes regular cops look real stupid since Eastwood is able to figure out the connection between the 2 murders in a couple of days while the police had 2 months with no clues.   And I didn't like the romance between Eastwood and murdered lady's sister. I mean, that was to forced and creepy. Eastwood looks 30 years older than that lady.Even though I guessed who the killer was, I still didn't get the best clue till it was explained in the movie. (SPOILERS) And of course that was the name No/One. I should have known since Jeff Daniels makes a point to spell it out when there was really no need too.FINAL VERDICT  A fairly entertaining mystery with an obvious conclusion. I recommend it because I happen to like mysteries and Clint Eastwood. "},{"Title":"Does not live up to the story","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am sorry that Clint Eastwood made such a flat and uninteresting movie. The actors seemed like they just punched in each day for work and delivered lines.  The plot was enough to make a good movie, but they fell short of pulling it off. "},{"Title":"Fine work","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that, at the screening I attended, people were giggling. I also have to admit that I can see why. Substitute the name McGarnickle for McCaleb and the echoes of Eastwood's previous cop films (and you don't have to have seen the films to recognise the echoes) become funny ... and not in the way I think they were intended to be.But this isn't unonscious self-parody of the usual kind. It's not one of those films that doesn't know it's bad. It isn't bad. It is, in fact, scrupulously well made. Some complain that the script takes too long to get to the point, but it can take as long as it damned well pleases, as far as I'm concerned; the slow, deliberate pacing is never (as it unfortunately was in True Crime, Eastwood's last film in this vein) the least bit tedious, and Eastwood never showed me anything I wasn't interested in seeing. I would have been disappointed if the script HAD cut to the chase. The methodical step-by-step journey leading up to the chase is usually the best bit.I admire, too, unhurried, straightforward, everything-spelled-out way in which the sympathetic characters talk, which is of course Eastwood's own style as an actor state your position clearly (write not so that you may be understood, but so that you may not be misunderstood), then say no more. It's easy to mistake this for bad acting, if you're expecting to watch a cop action movie about people who know that they're in a cop action movie. But I found it a relief, as well as a pleasure, to find that the characters had no idea what kind of movie they were in. To take one example McCaleb is a detective who frequently finds himself in the limelight, who is loathed by other policemen for hogging the limelight, who doesn't want the limelight. He never poses for the cameras. But it's all too easy, in a film, to make this not-posing-for-the-cameras just another way of posing for the cameras. Eastwood never does this. One gets the impression that he's not posing for the cameras for real.Even if Blood Work IS an unconscious parody of itself it's still immensely enjoyable. But to consider it as unconscious self-parody is to ignore too much the carefully-tightened tension, the sure-footed direction, the well-crafted storyline, the intelligent (and surprisingly civilised) way the characters interact with one another. "},{"Title":"Terrible adaptation of a good book","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I understand that in translating book to film the story has to be shortened and 'dumbed down' to a certain extend, but this adaptation sets a new low. Why did Mr. Helgeland make the killer a different character? The plot and the clues make little sense that way. The new and definitely not improved plot is highly predictable and littered with clues that are far from subtle.I usually like Eastwood's style as a director, but he is not on top of his game this time. Some of the scenes are so badly directed/edited/acted that it is painful to watch. As someone already pointed out, the doughnut scene is a particular highlight.2/10, maybe slightly higher if you don't know the book. "},{"Title":"entertaining but predictable","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of the thriller genre and CSI-esque films. This film, though not steller, did fit the bill. It was definitely an entertaining film and I would highly recommend it to any Eastwood fan since he gives a great performance - as expected. Unfortunately I found the plot itself a little convoluded and the killer was fairly obvious from the get go. Also, Wanda De Jesus had the habbit of repeating all of Clint's realizations as if the audience wasn't quick enough to get them the first time.i.e. Clint There, that's an apple Wanda Oh my god, that's an apple! Okay, there are no apples in the movie, but you get the point )Overall I give it a 3/5. It is a good movie once but not something I would watch a second time. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm..what to say?","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well...another movie, another review.  I took some time to read some of the Forum's and comments and noticed most viewers agree on this film.  I was a little disappointed in this film because I nailed the guilty party immediately.  That took much of the suspense out of it for me.  I thought the film was relatively well done.  Clint Eastwood has a classic style of his own in acting which I always enjoy.  This film had several VERY unrealistic scenes in it.  Being a cop, they were BLATANTLY obvious.  Maybe not knowing some of the police policies and procedures would have made the movie much more enjoyable and me less a critic.  I did enjoy the movie and would recommend it to others with the recommendation that they catch it at the dollar theater instead of paying full price.  I did note that most of the viewers had a difficult time nailing the killer.  That would have made the movie many times more enjoyable and would have allowed me to forgive some of the other shortcomings.  Check out this film...I think it will be worth your time all in all. "},{"Title":"Basic","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I could only use one word to describe this by-the-numbers thriller, I'd use basic. The film isn't original at all, and the characters are all fairly flat. What makes this worthwhile is Eastwood, the old, but cool ex-FBI agent who's going after a killer. Everytime he's doing his detective work, I found my eyes glued to the screen. After all these years he's still fun to watch. The killer ( don't worry, this isn't going to spoil anything) was also somewhat fun to watch. However, i guessed the killer in the first twenty minutes and the love story felt awkward. Also, the kiler's motivations are a joke and Paul Rodriguez was annoying as the cliched Mexican. However when Clint doing his job, I was entertained throughly. "},{"Title":"Mediocre crime/suspense flick, but might still be worth a watch.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terry Mecaleb is an FBI agent who is known for getting the best criminals, but when he goes after his latest one he has a heart attack.  Two years later, a retired Terry is brought back into a case by a woman whose sister was murdered.  Terry's new heart belongs to the women who was murdered and he decides he owes it to her and her son to find the killer.  A mediocre crime story, that is pretty predictable, but has an interesting story to it.  The acting is kind of wooden and not anything special, with the exception of Jeff Daniels who looks like he had quite a bit of fun.  It isn't a bad movie, it just isn't anything amazing either.  ** out of **** "}{"Title":"This blood is stale...","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Synopsis FBI profiler Terry McCaleb never thought he'd see retirement, until a near death experience with a heart attack made him think twice about the job, and gave him a new heart transplant. But in doing so, he received the heart of a victim, gift of the very killer he was chasing down. Asked to reopen the case as an independent, McCaleb is determined to find the killer who is leaving him with clues.The Review It's a shame that after Unforgiven, Eastwood's films haven't been getting as strong an audience reception as they deserve. True Crime, Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, Absolute Power, and with the exception of sleeper hit Space Cowboys, all of these films are very entertaining with solid casting to boot. His latest film, however, which is Blood Work features all the directorial styles of Eastwood, the heavy use of shadows, slow paced editing, the minimum of sound in action-oriented scenes, but all that aside, Blood Work is kind of stale. It's the slow pacing and unusually bad editing that does the film in, not to mention a one dimensional performance from Jeff Daniels (a truly great actor), who doesn't have much to work with here in the formation of his character from a all too loose script. The great thing, though, about Blood Work is that Eastwood is incorporating aging into his film. His later roles have been tailored to fit him and it fits him like a glove such as Absolute Power, Space Cowboys, and now this film, all about retired professionals. But unfortunately, that's all that separates Blood Work from the rest, essentially, not an impressive film coming from a great director such as Eastwood, who has a just as impressive cast. Particularly that of Paul Rodriguez who steals every scene as McCaleb's obnoxious police rival.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Slow-paced but worth seeing","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood isn't weak.  Even playing a character 60 days past a heart transplant, he can still kick major butt.  Although this movie takes a bit to get going and appears to have some slow parts, it's very misleading.  The mystery is revealed step-by-step with the viewer often figuring it out only a step ahead of the characters, and that makes it fun.  I highly recommend this if you have the patience to sit it out--and, sadly enough, Paul Rodreguez' rather forced effort at being a sarcastic cop (who woulda thunk it?). "},{"Title":"Tired and predictable, but worth a look in.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's good to see Clint back in the movies again, but I have to say that the opening scenes, with Clint supposedly running down a criminal, almost made me give up on this. It was just so unbelievable, seeing the old boy apparently keeping up with the bad guy, that I feared for the rest of the film. Luckily, his character at least has the grace to have a heart attack, which restored credibility somewhat and set up the rest of the film nicely. So the running scene, though silly, was a necessary part of the movie.The rest of the film, though is nothing new. The same old, killer-taunts-the-cop story and the cop bumbling his way through the clues trying to piece it all together. The sad thing is, the audience (unless they're very naive) guesses whodunnit very early on. There's no real mystery here. Considering that Clint's character was meant to be a top FBI guy you end up wanting to shake him and say Wake up! It's your neighbour! Even when the kid points out the clue in the number code, Clint still doesn't get it, yet he happily has flashbacks to other clues which we, the audience don't really get a chance to notice.It's also rather puzzling towards the end that, whilst apparently wanting Clint to live and continue hunting him down, the killer is quite happy to cap off countless rounds at Clint with an automatic weapon.In any event, I nailed who the killer was and what his motives were long before Clint even began to get a handle on it. So don't expect anything too clever here.That said, the film is an enjoyable enough way to pass a couple of hours and, as mentioned before, it's good to see Clint in the movies again after his break. I just hope he gives up on the action movies a bit. He's beginning to look a little tired in them, a bit like William Shatner looked tired in the later Star Trek movies. And that ain't a good thing!  "},{"Title":"A fetid mound of monkey flops","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry, I just hated this movie so much that it's difficult to express my feelings without comparing it to monkey flops.I didn't even have high expectations when I saw it (on video, not at the theater).  I can't even say I had mediocre expectations.  But this... it was as if blind, raging stupidity took physical form, and  bludgeoned me. Words fail me.The acting was awful, but the blame has to be on Eastwood's direction and on the script.  To say the movie is plodding is an insult to all those wonderful, plodding failures that have been made.The movie will actually make you flinch, and not from its tough realism or its powerful imagery.  Ha!  Realism!  Imagery!  What was with the stupid little kid who acted as if he had brain damage every time he was on screen? Why did the other actors have to say Terry's name every ten seconds?  Were you supposed to hate all the characters immensely, or was that unintended? "},{"Title":"Clint Is Still The Man","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A psychopathic murderer becomes obsessed with detective Terry McCaleb's (played by Eastwood) keen investigative skills and criminal detective work.  Determined to pull McCaleb into the all-too familiar cat and mouse game, the murderer phones in the hints and messages for McCaleb to follow through on.  Two years and one heart transplant later, McCaleb is forced to put retirement plans on hold when he is persuaded to go back over the details of a seemingly unrelated, run-of-the-mill liquor store homicide case.   When he learns (very slowly) that he shares a personal connection with one of the shooting victims, he struggles with an uninterested police department and then against the advice of his own doctor to get to the bottom of the case. For the audience, the signs quickly point to McCaleb's obsessed stalker/muderer from the past.  For McCaleb, there is another hour or two of movie to complete - so the logical steps towards enlightenment are doled out in hollywood time.  How you, the viewer, proceed from there depends, I think, on how big of an Eastwood fan you are.  I am a big fan, and for me, there is only one Eastwood, only one Clint stare, one trademark Clint grimace or swagger, and few who can convey as much expression and feeling by just sipping a cup of coffee or eating donut as Eastwood can.  As usual, I enjoyed watching Eastwood's ability to make the seemingly uninteresting parts of a film interesting, and the way his character is likeably flawed. The best part of this film, I think, is the way it's shot - there is a sort of openness to it that is enjoyable.  Quite a few scenes seemed to be shot outside and in such a way that you sort of just want to get absorbed into them, e.g. the opening scene with the night shot of the city, or the sun setting at the marina, or the walks with the mature but very sezy Wanda De Jesus.  Blood Work seems to invite the viewer into McCaleb's world by creating a special bond with him and his struggle to uncover the facts of the investigation (even when you know how things will turn out).  "},{"Title":"Disappointment After Having Read the Book","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing the movie after having read and enjoyed the book so much.  But it was very disappointing to see that so many things were changed, especially the killer.  That led to many clues not making sense.  If it was a matter of there not being enough time to develop the story in 1 1/2 hours, it would have been a better idea to make a 2-part tv mini series, as they do in many cases (Robin Cook books, for example) "},{"Title":"Dreck of a wreck","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eastwoods good performance notwithstanding, this film is a flat failure. Not an original character to be found, nor an interesting one at that. The whodunit aspect of the film is about as predictable as a Chicago Cubs season and it is entirely unbelievable throughout.  Heres to better days Clint.  "},{"Title":"Nothing new, but still ok (6/10)","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can start by saying that this is not the best Clint Eastwood has done in the 90's and the 00's.This type of movie has been seen several times before, and it has also been done better before. McCaleb (Eastwood) is a retired FBI-agent who receives an assignment he can't refuse, and he soon discovers that it is connected with him too. He now has to find a serial killer.The hunt for a serial killer has been seen before, and this is not different from the others. The movie in general doesn't bring anything new to the genre.The performances are good, Clint Eastwood is very trustworthy as a retired FBI-agent/profiler, and the rest of the cast did a good job too, but maybe they weren't the right ones for the roles. If you have seen the movie, you could read my spoiler below the rating.I would rate the movie 6/10.SPOILER It was pretty obvious from the beginning that Buddy Noone (Daniels) was the killer. Why would they else hire such a star for such an unimportant role? - He needed to have one other side that we didn't know of, so he could get some more camera attention in the end. I must say that it was poor casting, they should have picked an anonymous.  "},{"Title":"Bad....Just Plain Bad","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I will start by saying that I am a real Eastwood fan.  But this, boy was I ever disappointed.  I honestly felt at times as though I was watching a soap opera.  The dialogue in this sucked, the interaction between Eastwood and his doctor was laughable, and the love interest?  Come on Clint, you can do way better than this!!!  I waited a week for this DVD to become available, now I want my money back!! "},{"Title":"something a little different","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eastwood is still entertaining in this somewhat laid-back cop drama/mystery. There isn't a lot of action. However, it has a mature and unpretentious style that is refreshing. It is a character and plot driven film, and in this case the characters aren't constantly pumped up and rushing around. They are allowed to be together onscreen naturally with a minimum of superfluous camera tricks. Eastwood's style of direction is recognizable here if you've seen his other offerings.The plot worked for me, although the love interest thing (and the actress playing her) didn't really come together believably.Overall, this flick is a decent rental, if you can appreciate a bit of subtlety. Not for everyone. "}{"Title":"Nice too see Clint back in action.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was great to see Clint back in action after taking a few years off. And let me say, he came back strong.'Blood Work', while not one of his better movies, is still quite enjoyable, even if it is predictable at times.The enjoyment comes in watching Clint try and solve this mystery and where it takes him. From the open ends to the dead ends, its a great ride.Clint also gives a terrific performance, having just had a heart transplant, I like how he does kinda take things easy and we dont see the good ol' Clint running around beating up the bad guys, like Harry Callahan used to do. This time he uses his brain and words to beat the guys down, except when he uses a shotgun, that makes out to be one of the best scenes in the movie.Heres a guy who can drop dead at any moment, but is still rolling along and determined to solve this.The supporting cast is great, excpet Paul Rodriguez, and the one who sticks with me the most is Jeff Daniels. It was nice to see him drop his comedic roles, like the awful Dumb & Dumber, and try something new. He's really a great actor and it shows here.Also, Clints directing talents really show. From the tense alley chase at the beginning to the scene in the interogation room with the dounts, Clint really knows how to set the mood and tone. This movie, is a great example of that.One thing I didnt like was some of the changes they made going from the book to the script. Michael Connelly wrote an amazing book, that was even more tense and thrilling then this, but they had to leave great parts out. For example, they left out a great story arc about how evidence was planted on McCalebs boat and the cops came after him thinkig he was the killer. And the ending was completely differant and better. I wish some things were still left in, but, I guess you cant always get what you want.I hope Clint has one more hit left him before his acting days are up. Maybe another western, or another cop drama, either way, I hope Clint comes back. "},{"Title":"Too Predictable With Too Many Loose Ends","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ----------BEWARE! SPOILERS ARE IN THIS CRITIQUE!--------Clint Eastwood was great as usual. The photography, direction, and especially the Lennie Niehaus music is superb! But, if you're gonna film a mystery with twists, don't hire one of Hollywood's best actors as a numbskull, almost walk-on.  It was a dead giveaway from the beginning that Jeff Daniel must play a bigger role in the plot than the useless character he was given to portray throughout the first three-fourths of the movie.  And why use Anjelica Huston in a role that anyone from Central Casting could have phoned in? A waste of an Oscar winning talent!There was never an explanation as to why Jeff's character killed so many people.  Why did he want a heart for Clint? Was it a father or a gay fixation? Where did Jeff keep his car? Or at least the one he stalked Clint with. Where was the kid that Jeff was babysitting with while he was parked watching Clint play detective? If he was such a school dropout and flunky with no aptitude for scholastics, how did Jeff get access to the BOPHA computer line to trace Clint's rare bloodtype? How did Jeff know in the first place that Clint had a rare bloodtype?Why the hidden NO ONE clue that only a child could figure out? Jeff was submerged underwater long enough to drown ten times before he made his infamous Wait Until Dark villain raise up appearance. Why the hokey bit of having the victim's sister hold Jeff's head underwater to drown him?Clint has always been one of the best directors in Hollywood, but his choice of script with this one, is the only thing that shows his age. I found myself gasping for air every time he clutched his incision which was about a dozen times. We knew he had the surgery and had to take care of himself but he telegraphed the chest danger a few too many times.And finally, the love scene...he went to bed with the victim's sister one time and instantly fell in love.  GET REAL! Sorry, as great as he looked, he looked old enough to be her grandfather.BUT, in spite of the holes in the plot. I DID enjoy the film. I would like to have seen some of the footage left on the cutting room floor to fill in some of the missing answers. Next time, use an unknown for the murderer and keep us guessing!!! "},{"Title":"Geriatric non-Thriller","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have always been a Clint Eastwood fan, but the old boy should retire. He could barely get the words out. You don't have to be a big guy, but physical presence is a must, and Clint no longer has it. Worse yet, it is pathetic when they try to create a romantic interest with some young thing (in this case a thirty-something.) Note to all the aging Hollywood acting stars Step aside and let the youngsters take over. The plot was not great -- SPOILER COMING UP -- you know they are not going to throw away Jeff Daniels' part as the loser-sidekick. "},{"Title":"fair clint effort","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good by most standards, but not Clint's best effort. Liked Jeff Daniels. The rest of the supporting cast was fair at best. How old do you have to be before you don't get the young girl.  If you're not Clint Eastwood, there's no way 70 something retired cops walk away with 30 something young women. "},{"Title":"Interesting But Predictable!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Clint Eastwood at 70 plus years of age can still turn out an enjoyable thriller. In Blood Work he plays ex FBI agent Terry McCaleb who has received a heart transplant and was forced to retire, following a near fatal heart attack two years earlier. Dr. Bonnie Fox (Anjelica Huston) is overseeing his recovery. He is unexpectedly approached by a woman Graciella Rivers (Wanda DeJesus) who claims to be the sister of his organ donor. She lays the guilt trip on Terry by saying he owes it to her sister and her son to find her murderer. He reluctantly agrees and much to the chagrin of Dr. Fox, he begins his investigation. Now living on a boat in a marina, McCaleb enlists the help of his slovenly neighbor Buddy Noone (Jeff Daniels). In the course of his investigation McCaleb discovers that Gaciella's sister was indeed the donor of his new heart. He also discovers a link to a similar random killing two weeks before. He learns that the killer was the same person he was chasing when he had his heart attack two years earlier. During the course of his investigation, McCaleb is aided by a former colleague Jaye Winston (Tina Lifford) now with the L.A. Sheriff's department. He also runs afoul of two LAPD detectives Arrongo (Paul Rodriguez) and Walter (Dylan Walsh). Arrongo has a giant size chip on his shoulder and makes no secret of his dislike for McCaleb. McCaleb also begins a relationship with Graciella and the son of his donor, Raymond (Mason Lucers). Producer/director Eastwood plays McCaleb as a vulnerable but determined character. Still he manages to get off a few shots during the film's climax in true Eastwood fashion. Huston does what she can with a limited role. I was hoping that a relationship would develop between hers and Eastwood's character. DeJesus is good in her role but she is far too young to be taken seriously as Eastwood's lover. Daniels plays Buddy like a character from Dumb and Dumber. Rodriguez in a departure from his usual comedy roles, is excellent as the bigoted detective. All in all Blood Work is an entertaining film filled with interesting characters and situations. The only problem I found was that it was too predictable. I figured out who the murderer was far too early in the story. "},{"Title":"slowing down in plot also","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Was really excited to pick up new Eastwood film and then found myself yawning through it at half way point.  I love Eastwood and he was a great icon in the movie business but this whole movie was a conglomerate of old plots, old action scenes and old endings from various other movies in the past 25 years.  Eastwood has typecast himself again but almost seems to lack the energy to do it freshly. "},{"Title":"Can you say predictable?","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most predictable suspense movies I have ever seen! Just about anyone can guess the identity of the killer within the first half hour. I guessed it even before I started watching the movie. There were many things I did not like about this movie. The killer's trademark was good, but the killer's motive is never really explained. I also did not like the end showdown sequence between the detective and the killer. It was too fast, boring and uninteresting. The killer is killed off too quickly, with no natural moments or no interesting dialogue between the two of them.The cast is good. Clint Eastwood, Wanda de Jesus, Jeff Daniels, and Paul Rodriguez star in Eastwood's latest thriller BLOOD WORK. A movie that definetely not for everybody. If you like thrillers, then I recommend that you see this. If you are not a fan of suspense movies, or if you don't like to go to the movies, then I would really not tell you to see this. This is also a must-see for Clint Eastwood fans. This really is a disappointment for major thriller fans as the killer's identity is VERY predictable, so don't see this if you don't like being let down by movies.BLOOD WORK gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"Felt like Eastwood would suffer a real heart attack!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (spoilers) Good movie, but expected twist with his partner. Kind of hard to watch someone doubling for Mr.Eastwood every time he would have to jump or something. Otherwise ok. If one were to watch some of the old 'spaghetti' classic and then this, hmmm.... I guess Mr.Eastwood is getting old... "},{"Title":"Classy and enjoyable","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS ALL OVER ITEastwood has been making these kind of little movies for quite a long time now, and they sure are a breath of fresh air. This one in particular could've had a most elaborate script but it was good anyway.McClane's a famous FBI agent who has a nemesis that leaves him strange messages with code numbers near to the corpses. When he sees the killer's shoes besides a crowd of reporters he runs after him and has a heart attack, although he manages to shoot him. Now, two years later, McClane has had a heart transplant and lives retired in a boat. A young mexican woman comes to him and tells him that her sister was killed. Apparently her heart was the one used in the transplant operation, and so McClane has a debt and agrees to investigate the murder. Along with his neighbor Buudy Noone they track this man down. Finally the killer turns out to be the Buddy, and the surename Noone the key to the secret code (the only digit missing from the code was 1, so there was no one get it? get it? ha!). McClane and his new mexican girlfriend sail with the boat in the way to paradise, with a ten-year-old monster fishing behind them.A nice detective story. Classic development and story, solid, believeable although typical characters... The story's not predictable, however. At least I couldn't work out the final twist. The filmmaking is good, because Clint's as good a director as he's an actor. So, it's a great movie if you want a hour and a half of a well crafted piece of cake to enjoy. And only if you have a special thing for the genre, and I do.In the board there were some guys pointing out a couple of plot holes. I disagree with them. 1) They never said it was a piercing earring, so Buddy didn't have to pierce his ear to use it. Of course it may sound kind of tricky, but hey, it's possible, isn't it? 2) The Good Samaritan's face wasn't seen in the tape, and the shop didn't have why to have a second camera, so what's the big deal? There was no way they could sort something out with just the tape.SAY NO MORE "},{"Title":"Clint's feeling lucky even without Harry...","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's BLOOD WORK does an amicable job of presenting a diverting detective story.  From prologue to conclusion, the plot ably conserves the viewer's attention, disassembling with smooth manipulation the complicating mystery facing the protagonist.  Don't worry about lapses into generic Dirty-Harry mnemonics- there are no cheap retreads of devices from that universe, the film stands dutifully, as well as gracefully, on its own.Terry McCaleb is a profiler for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  All cinematic profilers have that one nemesis, that bête noire, which eludes them like a shooting star on a cloudy night and irritates them like cold air on a decayed tooth.  For McCaleb, it's the `Code Killer', a serial homicidal perp who courts the agent's attention and affections, leaving cryptic numerical messages at the bloody crime scenes.  In the opening sequence, McCaleb thinks he sees the man responsible for the latest killing, and hightails after him; unfortunately, the suspect gets away just as the elderly crime fighter's heart freezes into arrest from all the strain.Dissolve to a couple years later McCaleb now possesses a new blood pump. He feels a bit of guilt about it- as evidenced by comments he makes to his doctor concerning the younger patient down the hall who is also waiting for a transplant- but one has to imagine he's pretty happy to be alive just the same.  His whole world now is focused on the proper cultivation of his health, as he has to be extremely careful not to give the imported muscle any excuse to reject its second home.A distraction, however, comes along.  Graciella Rivers- portrayed by the sultry Wanda De Jesus- needs McCaleb's assistance in finding the culprit responsible for her sister's murder.  The retired profiler attempts a course of polite refusal, but it doesn't take long for him to accept the case; after all, it just so happens that the heart which has afforded him a second chance at life used to belong to Rivers's sister.  McCaleb enters the case, intent on bringing order to the messy chaos.BLOOD WORK yields many clues and false leads, a cavalcade of possible suspects and sticky situations, as every good detective story should.  The viewer does not experience a tight winding of suspense, nor are there any gritty, visceral sequences- the seat's edge is never occupied, certainly- but it matters little, as the picture operates on a different emotional level, a mellower, cooler one, where the story occupies the prime real estate of intent and execution.  The fly dangling off the main hook- that of the surprising situation of heart-transplant-recipient chasing organ-donor's murderer- does its job and baits you in, silvery-shimmering thing that is; it probably isn't wholly original, but then again, what lure is?  So long as you can catch fish with it and tie it in somewhat of a unique fashion, then all is well and legal in the world.Eastwood captures a string of competent performances.  Some shine more than others, but for the most part, they don't go too beyond the level of mere competency; once again, this is what is called for by the fundamental nature of the material.  All the stereotypes are present and accounted for, they do their job without going 'method', and whatever minimal character dimensionality exists either meets or beats the necessary requirements (of special note is Paul Rodriguez, whose Detective Ronaldo Arrango role lights the fuse to several comedic sticks of dynamite).  In terms of cinematography, the look of the film possessed a contemporarily elegant tone, the lighting bright and mellow; the camera techniques utilized were unassuming, straightforward, utilitarian.  These directorial choices were- forgive this crossing over into the land of tautology- justified and only worked to enhance the tale by keeping out of its way.BLOOD WORK didn't find its audience; it got swept up in the swift summer currents, the other sharks bigger and faster, biting down on the lucrative discretionary-carrying prey before it ever had time to perceive a chance. That's okay, because it will find its theoretical cult of admirers over the long run, as the story will prove to be a timeless one; ancillary markets, here comes Clint.  "}{"Title":"old dirty harry?","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  eastwood is not bad in this thriller it is flawed but what movie is not it MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD about a police detective who suffers a heart attack and is haunted by the killer who is closer home to home than he thinks jeff daniels is great is the killer eastwood is averge as the retired cop who tries to track him down not a waste of time if you like thrillers "},{"Title":"Eastwood playing Eastwood","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a big fan of Eastwood I'm glad he can still put out a leading role performance in a reasonably decent thriller despite his age (72 this year). He looked suitably rugged 10 years ago in his Oscar winning western UNFORGIVEN and here in BLOOD WORK he looks no different, nevertheless his roles since that great Western have been rather typecast, playing the retired or on the verge of retiring tough cop, secret service agent, thief or even astronaut.Perhaps in the hands of another actor these characters may have been varied but Eastwood is Eastwood, the legendary movie star who we love or quite frankly insist on being the same. He's always tough and charming and gets the threatening one liners that have dated back to the Dirty Harry days.So in his latest film he's back on IN THE LINE OF FIRE territory as an ex cop with a heart condition who tortures himself into coming back out of retirement (well he's sort of a part time P.I.) unofficially to hunt down the killer of a woman who after her untimely death donates her heart to Eastwood. This of course he finds out through the victims sister who persuades the already tormented cop turned private eye to investigate.Well Eastwood turns into Sherlock Holmes remarkably piecing together clues that his younger generation of police officers working his precinct are too incompetent to even concieve. This is the most interesting aspect of the film and it's what keeps you watching, as the mystery unfolds into a bit of a whodunnit while Eastwood's past inevitably comes back to haunt him.BLOOD WORK remains an enjoyable but formula thriller with cliched characters and Eastwood is given little support despite turns from Jeff Daniels and a rather wasted Angelica Huston. It lacks the pace and tension that IN THE LINE OF FIRE gave us but at least it doesn't go down the embarrassing route of THE ROOKIE more like an average Eastwood thriller that can be filed next to ABSOLUTE POWER and TRUE CRIME.   "},{"Title":"Not great, but entertaining and avoids high tech special effects","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've read the other reviews and think the criticism is way too harsh.  OK, so I was bored one evening and cut to the local discount $4 theatre for 2 hours.  I probably would have griped to pay $8.50, but I was satisfactorily entertained and it would be a worthwhile video rental. Ok, so a lot of this was formulaic, and the monotonous repeating of Paul Rodriguez as a moronic, bigoted Latino cop wore thin, but I enjoyed seeing it being played out.  One thing I don't get is the other reviewers incredulity of Eastwood's romantic liaison with the murder victim's sister (the beautiful Wanda De Jesus).  Don't you get it?--He had already 'bonded' with her by taking the case, and had begun a psychological relationship with her and her nephew, and most importantly, she gets a chance to get close to her sister's HEART.  Yes, Eastwood is no youngster, but how many could sprint those opening scenes at age 72 (or even 50)-- a testament to his lifelong hobby of regular running.  I'm sure the book is a distinct improvement(I just took it out of the local library), but it was an enjoyable 2 hours for me (a big GBU and Dirty Harry fan) nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Thomas Harris book fans will be disappointed","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I could not understand why Thomas Harris would allow Hollywood to alter his book to the point that it is disappointing. Clint Eastwood seems tired and sweaty the entire movie and falls into many of the old clichés. His love interest was not believable because of the character's physical condition. The love scene was totally gratuitous, which had no part in the movie. The book series has great characters that come back time and again to each episode. But this screenplay makes Swiss cheese out of the great characters and chances for a good follow-up movie. Some of the supporting cast has the usual stereotypical characters that Hollywood feels is necessary. For example the other cops at Clint's department do not provide any drama, or contribute anything to the plot. They are merely window dressing. At the end of the movie, I felt like the book plot and characters had been push through some kind of Cliché machine that chewed up dialog and spit out bad character acting. Much of the dialog seemed to be fillers, just to have a 108 minute movie.  "},{"Title":"NOT ALWAYS SIMPLE , BLOOD IS!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think I have not missed too many Clint Eastwood movies in fact I go back to my teenage TV time and not missing an episode of RAWHIDE, His name was Rowdy Yates and they were all on a cattle drive.Blood Work isn't one of his best, but he did a great job. I was convinced he had an heart attack, in fact it was a little annoying, as I thought he was going to have a real one.  I imagine this is his swan song as far as shoot'em up run 'em down movies of his younger years. And why not! It would still be good to see him in any detective work, forensic or otherwise. A great actor! Craciella Rivers, 'Flawless,' ' The Insider,' did a great job as the sister of the murdered girl and whose heart was given to Clint.  She tracks Clint (an x FBI agent) down and wants him to find the killer. The story drags a little and Paul Rodriques, city cop 'Ronoldo' display's his angst toward Clint and in another movie, Clint would have slapped him around, but instead he gets the last verbal shot at the raving Renoldo. Very funny scene. I was wondering what Angelica Houston , 'Buffalo 66 ,' Ever After-was doing in this small part as the Dr. taking care of Clint, but then remembered that Clint was a great friend of John Houston, Angelica's father! The plot will be transparent but if you like Eastwood in the raw then you must see this flick. I gave it a 6/10 . ciao yaaah69 "},{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I used to like Clint Eastwood, but I just don't know anymore.SPOILERS!!!!  Major SPOILERS ahead!!!I found this movie predictable in the worst possible ways.  My partner and I kept looking over at each other and saying things like he'll be sleeping with her in about fifteen minutes, I bet both murders were by the same person, I bet it was the code killer guy trying to get Clint a heart, I bet the little kid will solve the code, I bet the bad guy is right on top of the boat, and the unforgivable I bet his best friend will turn out to be the killer.  And we were right every time.  I kept hoping we wouldn't be, partly because I wanted to be surprised and partly because everything we predicted was so horribly cliche and unrealistic to the point of being ridiculous.And I forgot to mention that the acting was not good. "},{"Title":"Keep your shirt on!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I kind of imagined that Eastwood was playing Harry again as an old man with a heart transplant even though he's called Terry. Eastwood takes his shirt off a number of times and I don't know why? He's old now, REAL OLD. I still like Clint and he's a very good director but this is not one of his best. But it's Clint! And of course a much younger woman is attracted to him and kisses his heart transplant scar. But it's Clint! And of course he's brandishing and shooting firearms in public but doesn't get arrested. But it's Clint! I found this film mildly interesting as Eastwood does acknowledge his age (To a point) but ultimately it gets a little silly. But it's Clint! "},{"Title":"Good Work on Bloodwork.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood has not lost his touch for directing.  An unusual story. Similar to a few other movies but enough new or altered material to keep you interested.  Jeff Daniels- EXCELLENT!  One sneaky neighbor or what!  A Profiler's  nightmare if ever we saw one.  A chameleon with long hair.The story was all good except for the part about Clint getting a new girl friend.  Too much of a stretch on the age difference.  Not good romance material at all.  It didn't help and they both seemed uncomfortable in scenes.Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Run of the mill, but has clever twists","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    Clint Eastwood in another aging FBI agent role as Terry McCaleb, a retired fed who retires after heart problems.  Two years later, he comes out of retirement to help the sister of the woman Terry's  heart was replaced with during the heart transplant  that saved his life catch the killer.   	    Despite some cardboard dialogue, and a lack of originality, Blood Work is a good mystery with an ending that will catch you completely off guard.    Eastwood proves once again his talent as a director as well as an actor.  He keeps the story at a pretty good pace, and acts his role out credibly.  At 72, hes still going strong, although his new role conviniently has a small amount of physical action for his character.  "},{"Title":"If you liked the novel, skip the movie!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a long-time reader of Michael Connelly's novels, and I count Blood Work as the best of the lot.  (Those who have only seen the film and not read the book might think this fact indicates bad taste.  What it REALLY indicates is the huge gap in quality between the novel and the film.)  I have lamented for years that nobody in Hollywood had ever made a movie out of one of Connelly's novels, but now I hope no one ever does it again, if this film is going to be the standard.I assumed (wrongly) that the inspiration to make a film out of Blood Work came from the ingenious plot of the novel, with Connelly's trademark misdirection, small clues, and overall LOGIC.  An expectation that these characteristics would be faithfully conveyed to the big screen was the ONLY reason I went to see the film!  (I was less optimistic when I saw in the commercials that Clint Eastwood was involved, but he HAS made subtle, intelligent movies before (see IN the Line of Fire). WARNING  SPOILERS AHEAD---Apparently, the writer who adapted the novel to a screenplay failed either to read the novel or to understand it.  As has been mentioned in many reviews above, the trail of clues in the novel led LOGICALLY to the killer, so changing who the killer was without changing the trail made no sense at all.  The novel's third murder, which allowed McCaleb to put together the clues, was essential and eliminating it made the connections he DOES make in the film seem either stupid or obvious.  The opening scene involving the Code Killer drew too much attention to that case, which the novel merely describes among others in passing so as not to give too much away.  Changing the tag line (from Don't forget the cannoli to Happy Valentine's Day was simply stupid.)  The No 1 inspiration only made sense after looking at ALL of the Code Killer's codes, not just one.  In the novel, the killer only made one mistake, and it took intelligence to notice it, put the clues together, and track him down.All in all, not a good adaptation.  Plus, the movie simply had elements that make for bad movies.  First of all, Clint Eastwood is approximately 244 years old, and should know by now that he does not have to sleep with every one of his female leads.  (What he does off-screen is his own business.)  The encounter between Graciella and McCaleb, which was brought about convincingly in the novel as a RELATIONSHIP developed between them, is simply contrived in the film.  I was in a theater full of teenagers, and the entire audience laughed out loud when Graciella slipped out of bed and basically attacked McCaleb.  It was about as well segued as a porn film sex scene.  Obviously, everyone knew it was going to happen (it was an Eastwood film, after all), but when it actually did happen, it was unbelievable and a bit creepy.   "}{"Title":"Good mystery","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eastwood was his usual self, (good). The mystery was good and kept you thinking for most of the movie. The kid was good. The only drawback, the usual old man with a young woman.It would have been much more satisfying and truthful if he had been an (adopted grandpa. "},{"Title":"Clint can still churn 'em out but....","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eastwood is well over 70 years old now and he needs to think about doing roles similar to the photographer that he played in 'The Bridges of Madison County'.  He is simply too old for the roles that involve police of investigative work now because he is dangerously close to falling into the Charles Bronson trap of trying to look tough at an age where it almost becomes laughable.  Don't do it, Clint!  In 'Blood Work', Eastwood plays a former FBI man who is investigating the murder of a woman whose heart he received in a transplant after she died.  The way things work out seems to be a bit too detailed in so much as the killer he is after planned something that requires an almost genius level of Einstein meets Edison ingenuity and this guy is trailer trash at best and has a personality similar to the Scorpio killer in 'Dirty Harry'.  If you are willing to overlook this, 'Blood Work' is a moody and stylish thriller to a point but its effect has been felt over and over again in the past. "},{"Title":"Raise your hand if you cannot stand trailers that give too much away!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie would have been soooo much better for me had I not let myself watch the trailer (not unusual for me mind you).  This movie relies on the audience not knowing about 2 major things, and because of the trailer I was able to guess both, 1st in the first 1/2 hour, and 2nd about 1/2 way through.Clint Eastwood plays a man who was the good of a killers good and evil game.  When Eastwood suffers a heart attack and becomes in need of a heart transplant, well, the fun ends.  Don't worry though, that's enough from me.  Go see the movie if you didn't see the trailer, or if you plain old forget it (funny, my remember-everything boyfriend forgot the trailer until I expressed my disgust for it, and then he totally remembered and felt sorry for me...ahhhh, how I wish I had the ability to forget what I don't want to remember instead of everything else). "},{"Title":"Eastwood is excellent, film's ending not","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eastwood again proves himself an excellent judge of great characters for himself. Since Unforgiven, he has found roles which are made for his economical expression and his tough shell/inner vulnerability. His portrayal of Terry McCaleb, especially in the first half of Blood Work, is among his best performances.Eastwood is assisted in strong supporting performances by Anjelica Huston and Tina Lifford, and I liked the way that a previous intimate relationship between Lifford's and Eastwood's characters is alluded to but not spelled out. Unfortunately, the movie itself is undone by a melodramatic and awkward performance by Wanda De Jesus, who perhaps needed more screen time and stronger direction (here we must fault Mr. Eastwood) to allow her character's growing attraction to McCaleb to seem more natural.The ending of the movie is another problem, as developments become more and more ludicrous. The revelation of the killer's identity, which I could see coming an hour or more, wasn't the worst part. Instead, we are subjected to a variation of the killer-loose-in-a-dark-house sequence. I'll grant that the final set is atmospheric and unusual, but questions about the logistics of how hostages could be convinced to travel there, and about how the killer's approach to the site in daylight would not draw suspicion from everyone in the area, were too distracting for me to suspend disbelief.Eastwood has found a great character. He now just needs to find a better script. "},{"Title":"Blood Work stands alone amongst summer blockbusters, focusing on economic subtlety not cheap frills.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood WorkThere's a line in Blood Work spoken by Clint Eastwood that reflects his very own simplistic yet solid film making vision `I don't believe in cell phones. I always use a hard-line.' In a summer that features cheap frills at studio busting costs, Blood Work stands alone in offering an investigative crime package that focuses on economic subtlety. While it's not Clint Eastwood's best directorial effort, Blood Work does offer a suspenseful detective story wound through a good cast of characters. The film might have been a more competitive summer contender if it were self-conscious of its own potential.The story centers on Terry McCaleb, a retired FBI informant who after getting a heart transplant is born again into his love of crime investigation. Graciella Rivers, played by Wanda De Jesus, tracks down McCaleb and convinces him to look into the murder of her sister, the same woman who donated the heart that now beats in McCaleb's chest. His research into the case stirs up a past serial killer that he failed to bring to justice two years ago. This unauthorized investigation of his old rival threatens McCaleb's life beyond the routine dangers of FBI work; as his physician (Angelica Huston) warns him, the stress level of the case could complicate matters with his new heart.As if Clint's character doesn't already have enough to stress about he must also deal with detectives Arrango and Waller, played by Paul Rodriguez and Dylan Walsh respectively. The pair give him a hard time about the case because he is no longer an active law enforcer; they also suspect that McCaleb is getting involved in the case to spite them and to resurrect his old days of media stardom. Rodriguez does a good job of playing the smart-aleck cop you love to hate. Detective Arrango and McCaleb's deadbeat neighbor Buddy Noone (Jeff Daniels) supply enough comic relief that is neither trite nor excessive.Blood Work is an engaging film in that you become immersed in attempting to unravel the puzzle. It is a pleasure to follow Clint Eastwood to various crime scenes and see him work through the fine details of several crimes with a fine toothed comb. Just when you think you have nailed down who the killer is, the suspect is offed and a rethinking of events is in order. Elements of Blood Work will remind you of films like Se7en- the killer leaving coded messages written in blood at the crime scene. Unfortunately the correlation between the serial killer's code and his real identity is weak and arbitrary.The minds behind this film mistakenly overlook a wonderful opportunity to complicate the story in a dynamic way. One underlying theme in Blood Work is McCaleb's aging bachelorhood and the rebirth of his love life via his new heart. There are three female characters that exhibit interest in McCaleb the main character Wanda, Dr. Fox, and Jaye Winston, a police officer whom he once mentored. Each character appeals to McCaleb in different ways. Dr. Fox has the intimate knowledge of his health making McCaleb vulnerable to her on a physical level. Jaye looks to McCaleb as a fatherly figure and has had the pleasure of working with him on a professional level. Wanda holds the trump card; she can play him in a number of ways because he feels indebted to her and her sister- McCaleb's life force. The female characters rarely cross paths. Furthermore there is a sense of deception about Wanda that is also very subtle; perhaps McCaleb falls for the wrong woman. I have a suspicion that Wanda is the black widow working to entice McCaleb and then suck the life out of him. Clearly Dr. Fox's love for him is the truest of them all. And what's the deal with Wanda's sister's kid and his implied knowledge of guns and the secrecy between him and his mother; was something left out of the movie that was in Michael Connelly's novel?Blood Work is a throwback to classic Clint Eastwood movies. Though I think the film would have done better at the box office as a fall release when America's older audience no longer has to fear going to the theatres and facing the pubescent offerings of summer blockbusters. Clint Eastwood does well adapting to his real life aging body. No matter how much his bones ache he still maintains that iconic toughness and is able to mastermind film making with seemingly effortless craft. Blood Work as the potential to be a better film, but it stays safe and survives as no more than a solid no bells and no whistles Clint Eastwood detective flick. In a time when audiences line up at the multiplex to cough up cash for standard Hollywood trash, and when young directors come and go as fast as their gimmicky styles, it is nice to see the old workhorse sticking it out. Rating **1/2Nathan Danilowicz 8-17-02 "},{"Title":"Recommended with One Reservation","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (This review discusses contains a basic discussion of the plotand characters which may be considered spoilers. )Director Clint Eastwood is a master of minimalist filmmaking.  In aHollywood of bigger, more violent, more prurient, more explosive,more everything, Eastwood stands like the yeoman silent cowboyon a windswept western plain that he so often played in hiscareer.  Eastwood resolutely makes his films the old-fashionedway &#150; with smart weather-beaten characters, set in a story that istold with workmanlike precision, devoid of fast edits, CGI or othermodern Hollywood conventions.  This is why Clint Eastwood is agreat director and this is why I go to see his movies.`Blood Work' lives up to my expectations of Eastwood's workthree-quarters of the way, and disappoints in the last quarter.`Blood Work' centers on aging-FBI serial killer profiler TerryMcCaleb, played by Eastwood himself.  In a chase with a killer,McCaleb collapses from a heart attack.  After retiring from the FBI,he spends two years waiting for a heart transplant and eventuallyreceives one.  However, he finds that his new heart came from amurder victim.  The victim's sister Graciella Rivers, played by theWanda De Jesus, asks him for a favor that he cannot refuse, totrack down the murderer of her sister.  Still weak from the hearttransplant, McCaleb goes on the hunt.  He is frail, vulnerable, oldand sick and we hear every breath he takes, see each of his feversthat indicate possible transplant rejection, and go with him on thisjourney to find justice for the woman that gave him life.Eastwood's courage to show himself in a diminished capacity isintimate and speaks to the truth that he seeks in his maturedirectorial works.  The brilliance of his Academy Award winning`Unforgiven' is that he took the essence of the Westerns thatmade him famous and stripped it down.  He tore away theglamour and bravado, the high-minded honor, and revealed a truthabout gunslingers, sheriff's and regular men of the time that wasdark, gritty and pure.  For most of `Blood Work' Eastwood againattempts to strip down the `Dirty Harry' icon that he created for amore humanistic truth where no one is invincible and no one canavoid death forever.  This is yet the next progression for the SecretService agent that he portrayed in Wolfgang Peterson's `In theLine of Fire' (a movie that showed him panting to keep up with amotorcade).When Eastwood sticks to his unconventional portrayal of an ailinglaw enforcement agent, I appreciated `Blood Work'.  This wasbecause, now, all bets were off.  Dirty Harry could never die, butTerry McCaleb could.  The situations were more vulnerable, lesspredictable and the sense of danger was heightened.  AsMcCaleb tracked the clues, we feared for his safety and his health.Unfortunately, the Dirty Harry of old resurfaces at the end for aforgettable conclusion.  It is a cheat for Eastwood to place himselfopenly in a crucible that has fired down the old conventions of hissuperman cop icon, only to then bring them back for a  conventional conclusion.  Better for him was to obey the rules heset up for himself in the film, recognize the limitations of his age,and ask younger and fitter police officers to help him track downthe killer at the end, rather than do it alone, as he did in his prime.Still it was a treat to watch most of the movie and to rememberwhen movies did not have excessive violence, frenetic pacing andhi-tech wizardry.  For this I recommend Eastwood's `Blood Work'with only one reservation that prevented this from being a bookendto his greatest film `Unforgiven'.  I do hope that he makes one finalpolice film that fully strips down the police-thriller genre like he didthe western.  With luck, someone will bring him such a script.My score is 7 out of 10 / *** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"The Eastwood magic still works","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Blood Work for the same reason that I enjoyed Lilo and Stitch.  When I go to see an Eastwood film or a Disney Studios film, I know I'm going to encounter familiar and predictable formulas, situations, writing, and overall style.  With false expectations out of the way, I'm ready to get the most I can out of the film.  With Blood Work I was delighted to find Clint Eastwood in full form, and with as commanding a screen presence as ever.  As the film progressed, I was on the verge of tears of pure pleasure a couple of times such a treat is it to be caught up in a suspenseful story, well (if predictably) told, beautifully photographed, and the whole peppered with the trademark Eastwood tough-guy one-liners.  True, the romance seemed far-fetched, but not, to me, on account of the age (and physical condition!) discrepancy, but rather because there was not sufficient story development for it.  As a result, the effect was jarring, but on the other hand I'd have been disappointed if an Eastwood detective story lacked the romance angle it just wouldn't be right without it.On the whole, I'd rate this nine stars out of ten in its genre; and I gave it seven stars overall in the IMDb rating.Definitely worth seeing if you like a good detective story and the strong woman characters are a plus. "},{"Title":"uh, predictable but good nonetheless","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the ending coming 5 minutes or so into the movie but I liked it way, because I kept wondering what Eastood's character was gonna connect to the crime set-up next.  I saw the movie for free (I wouldn't have paid simply because I'm not a fan of Clint really), but I enjoyed it more than I was expecting to.  "},{"Title":"Highly Predictable, No Suspense","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am very disapointed.  I was expecting a serial killer movie, full of twists and turns.  The previews actually looked pretty good.  Forget that! I knew what was coming every second of this film.  There was cheesy lines, cheesy music, cheesy action sequences, and a cheesy romance.  It was laughable at moments, but barely barable.  No suspense here.  Not very realistic either.  If you're a fan of those older cop movies that come on tv all the time, you might find this somewhat enjoyable.  Other than that, and laughing at how embarrasing it must be to have made such a film, it is hardly worth your time. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's been way better","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I went to Blood Work expecting action, some good Clint one-liners, and SUSPENSE.  I have to say this movie fails to deliver those aspects.  Blood Work is based on a novel by Michael Connelly, a good one at that.  While the flick has the potential to be all those things that make us spend five dollars to feel, overall it is lacking.  Some of the scenes are downright ridiculous.  After Eastwood and his female partner shoot up a street while trying to hit a parked car that is high-tailing it out of there (I would have to if Eastwood was walking towards me with a shotgun!) she says we shot up the whole valley to this Clint says did you hit anything? Me either, let's go!  For some reason that line had me busting up in the theater.  Gee could it be just how hilarious the scene is?  Clint has been better in 98% of his work.  I give Blood Work 4/10. JF "}{"Title":"Vintage Eastwood....","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, the ole guy's still got it... I thought this film was very well done..kept you in suspense and on the edge of your seat..  I have seen the majority of Clint's movies and rarely have I been disappointed.. "},{"Title":"Gripping -- until it breaks down at the end","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a fascinating film great story, excellent acting, well shot.  So for the longest time whilst watching it I thought it the equal of  In the Line of Fire.  But it is not.The problem comes towards the end, once McCaleb has figured out the identity of the killer.  Any sane person would have called for backup.  McCaleb chooses to go it alone and so we are treated to the requisite scene of cat and mouse in the fog  -- combined with child in jeopardy.At that point what was an original and artful story turns banal.But it's worth going to see for the first 3/4 of the film.    "},{"Title":"So many things wrong with this film...where do I start??","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about as taut as Clint Eastwood's face, and there's nothing remotely thrilling or interesting about it.Dialogue  Atrocious.  I can't remember the last time I heard dialogue that bad.  The script seemed to be made up of loosely strung together bad one-liners and tired cop clichés.Acting  I wanted Paul Rodriguez's character to die within moments of the film's opening-I'm talking nails on chalkboard.  Then there was Graciella--wooden and overdone.  And wasn't Clint Eastwood at some point an actor?  He was NOT at the top of his form here&#133;he was scraping the bottom of the barrel.Story  I hear the book is better, and golly I hope so!  When Terry moved towards the bedroom with the much younger woman the audience response was `Ewwwww!!'  By the time the big twist came along, nobody was surprised because nobody cared.Directing  Slow-paced, awkward and clunky.  Transitions were sloppy and you often left each scene with a relief that it was over.It could have been an engaging, interesting story about a serial killer and his favorite cop.  Instead it was a tired exercise of worn-out clichés and bad acting, with forced sentimentality.*bleah* "},{"Title":"Predictable, but fun","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love Clint Eastwood.  His movies don't tend to give the typical Hollywood feeling that it came off an assembly line with 25 other movies just like it--each one with its own generic characters right out of How to be a Successful Screenwriter in 30 Days.This one, however, I found to be predictable.  I was bored with the plot 25 minutes into it because of my patented theory the guy you know from other movies but isn't advertised as being in this movie is the one who did it.But, story aside, Clint's character is very interesting.  Terry McCaleb is a character who is forced into a case 2 years after his heart attack because of his indirect relationship to a recent murder.  And, naturally, he does a great job!  It's the rest of the movie that doesn't sit well with me--the romance, the rivalry with the cops, the wacky sidekick, etc.It's definitely worth seeing, as it is more of an exercise in Clint's directing and acting than it is in Helgeland's screenwriting.  Maybe I was expecting it to be more complex and that ultimately let me down...I'll rate it at 2 1/2 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Review #1","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was really overhyped. I came in expecting to see one of the best Clint Eastwood movies ever.The plot had some good twist and the acting and script were good, but nothing outstanding. I don't think the ending was really a surprise, more by the book then anything. I think the way the killer works things is the real amazing thing here.But like I said, the movie was overhyped. The Blood Work was slow in places and never really gripped me at all. I felt like I was just watching another movie.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pick it up, Gramps","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood, at the venerable age of 72, finally gets a littlesloppy. This potboiling whodunit about a retired FBI man with abum ticker (played with characteristic coolness by the director)bumps along agreeably for three quarters of its length. Then itveers into a zone of improbability and predictability that seemslifted wholesale from a crummy MACGIVER-style eighties TV showfor its concluding half hour. What could Eastwood have beenthinking? Was this crash Eastwood's idea, or the screenwriterBrian Helgeland's? (Helgeland's having written L.A.  CONFIDENTIAL makes one want to give him the benefit of thedoubt.) In the past, the simplicity of Eastwood's style has had a refreshing,old-school, un-McG-like quality. Here, though one wants toapplaud the veteran production designer Henry Bumstead forshowing up to work at age 87 (!), there are an awful lot of uglyoff-white undecorated walls to stare at. A beachside expositionscene is shot so violently differently from the rest of the picture itlooks as if it were filmed years after the rest of the material. Andcasting, generally one of Eastwood's strong suits, is at an all-timelow here Wanda De Jesus, as the sister of a murdered womanand the catalyst of Eastwood's investigation, smolders and sneerssilently when she doesn't have any lines. When she has a big,noble speech, you'd swear she was flaring her nostrils. I can'trecall a performance so soap-opera bad in a major role in a studiomovie in...well, ever, really.Eastwood has recently made smart, vigorous, entertainingpictures like MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL andthe sublime SPACE COWBOYS. He'll pull it together again. But thisone, like certain recent Woody Allens, makes you wish he hadtaken a year's worth of naps instead of making such a botch. "},{"Title":"PRIMER CLINT","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BLOOD WORK (2002) *** Clint Eastwood, Jeff Daniels, Wanda De Jesus, Anjelica Huston, Tina Lifford, Paul Rodriguez, Dylan Walsh.  Old school Eastwood flick with Clint as an ex-FBI agent recovering from a heart transplant only to be coerced out of semi-retirement when he learns the organ donor was the woman of the sister seeking justice for her slain sibling by a relentless serial killer he was chasing at the time of his coronary.  What plays as an essential Greatest Eastwood Hits amalgam &#150; `Dirty Harry', `Tightrope', `In the Line of Fire' &#150; isn't necessarily a bad thing since he directs with great economy and skillful get-to-the-point action and drama with the twist as a truly vulnerable hero.  Brian Helgeland's adaptation of Michael Connelly's bestseller is at times stiff with its dialogue but keeps the suspense in fine potboiler form.  Look sharp for Clint's real-life telejournalist wife Dina as a reporter on a crime scene.  "},{"Title":"solid vehicle for Eastwood","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For action movie stars, the question of how to age gracefully on screen has become a growing concern of late, now that many of the men who made their mark and their fortunes in the genre during the &#145;70's, &#145;80's and early &#145;90's have begun to slip not merely into middle age but, in some cases, even old age as well.  For understandable reasons, many of these brawny gentlemen have refused to go gently into that night of second-string bit player roles and has-been status &#150; and their studios, which earned some mighty bucks off their popularity during that time, have been reluctant to let go of them as well.   The action genre requires, of course, a nimbleness and vitality that come only with youth.  How then to get men pushing 50, 60, even 70 years of age to compete with the up-and-coming action stars of the future, men with the energy and vigor to pull off the stunts these senior citizens can but dream about from their own long-past glory days?  One way to deal with the problem is to simply ignore the effects of aging altogether, to have the actors go through the motions anyway, even at the risk of reducing the whole enterprise to the level of rank implausibility.  Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone, in their latest action films, have settled for this strategy, the result of which is that their films haven't been either very successful at the box office or all that much fun to watch of late.  The much older Clint Eastwood has decided to take the opposite tack.  In the latter stages of his career, Eastwood has found ways to incorporate the elements of aging into the people he is portraying.  These characters need time to recover from the stressful physical requirements of the job; their reflex time is not always what it should be; they work hard at staying alongside their younger crime-fighting partners when pursuing a suspect on foot; they get winded when they run.  The sight of Eastwood panting to keep up with the President's motorcade in `In the Line of Fire' is one of the great emblematic images of &#145;90's action cinema.Well, it is nine years since that film, and Eastwood himself is now 72 years old.  In his new film `Blood Work,' Eastwood's Terry McCaleb is about as close to keeling over dead as any action movie protagonist we have ever come across.  Not only is he old, he suffers a heart attack while chasing a serial killer in the opening scene and, two years later, has just received a brand new ticker, courtesy of a young female donor who was murdered in a convenience store robbery.  Although McCaleb's doctor keeps telling him that this postoperative period is a crucial one requiring complete rest and relaxation, this retired FBI murder investigator decides to disobey doctor's orders when the heart donor's beautiful sister arrives on his houseboat begging him to help her find the young woman's killer.   The plot of `Blood Work,' based on the novel by Michael Connelly (and adapted by Brian Helgeland), is not the real selling point of the film &#150; although it emerges as a better-than-average police procedural with some interesting plot twists, unusual locations and a nice maze-like structure to keep the audience guessing (although I must admit that I figured out who the killer was rather early on in the story).  The film also does a nice job closing in on itself, making McCaleb himself an integral part of the story's final unraveling (though it does steal a bit from `In the Line of Fire' in this one area).  Yet the most impressive aspect of the film is not its story but its central character and, most particularly, the performance of Eastwood himself.  Perhaps because he also directed the picture, this legendary star really seems to inhabit the character he is playing here.  With his craggy &#150; but still remarkably handsome &#150; face, Eastwood looks like a man who has weathered any number of life's greatest trials and emerged from them a better, more compassionate human being.  Having devoted his career to trying to get into the minds of the sickest types of criminals imaginable (serial killers), he is still able to be touched by the desperate pleas of a grieving sister, the sad plight of a young boy facing the grim prospect of an early death brought on by a weak heart, and the innate goodness and innocence of a young son who has lost the dearest thing in his life to a madman's bullet.  McCaleb knows the difference between good and evil, and he also knows that second chances don't always come around in life so he better make the most of the one he's been handed.There are superb supporting performances by Jeff Daniels as the neighbor excited at the prospect of sharing in some of the glamour of McCaleb's investigative work, Anjelica Huston as the cardiologist maddened by her patient's refusal to take it easy in his crucial period of convalescence, Wanda De Jesus as the sister who sets the plot in motion with her request that McCaleb help her in her search for justice, Paul Rodriquez as the eternally irate detective who thinks McCaleb is overstepping his jurisdiction and Tina Lifford as a fellow investigator who has enough faith to trust the old pro even when he seems to be going beyond the bounds of totally by-the-book rules and procedures.  It's unfortunate that Eastwood does compromise a bit by having his character end up in a romantic relationship with the much younger De Jesus rather than with a woman closer to his own age.  I guess even this superstar couldn't stand THAT much of an affront to his male ego.  Oh well, give credit to the man for at least having the gumption to confront some of the realities of his own aging.  We are happy enough with what we have.  Let's not expect miracles.    "},{"Title":"Book much better than film","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is always enjoyable to watch Clint Eastwood and I thought the overall acting in this film was above average, except that of Paul Rodriguez, who I found cartoonish as another reviewer commented. In one scene he calls his Captain, Lieutenant. The Michael Connelly book was outstanding but this screenwriter butchered his book and left out several plot elements and especially the ending in Mexico. I also preferred the Buddy Lockridge character in the book. "},{"Title":"Less than the book, but still a good movie.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a addicted fan of Michael Connelly's work. Having read this book before seeing the movie, I was expecting to experience my usual reaction to Hollywood's general inability to transfer a good book to film. So, I have to re-arm myself with the understanding that it's a film based on the book; not a direct transfer. With that said, simplifying the plot might be good idea in some cases. It didn't help here. Buddy was just too conveniently placed to be the serial perp. He was obvious to me when he acted as the 'good Samaritan'. If Noone was retained as the perp and Lockridge was left alone, the plot might have been more intricate but the suspense would have been stronger. My companions at the showing both liked the movie. Neither has yet to read the book.  "}{"Title":"Memento mori from Clint Eastwood","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is seventy-two years old.  An actor for almost fifty years and a director for over thirty, he's one of those classic Hollywood pop icon leading men who has such lean, tall, broad shouldered, impressive looks, such dignity and carriage and austere machismo, such cheekbones, such good hair, that he can still draw an audience, still move through an action role, still be believable chasing murderers down alleyways. I don't have to explain that.  He's Clint Eastwood -- that's all you have to say.  But wait! This time at the end of the alleyway, Clint, as Terry McCabe, famous FBI investigator, falls down, fires a few rounds, collapses, passes out. He's having a heart attack!  Fast forward to two years later, when he's just had a heart transplant and the serial killer he was chasing has dropped out of the picture. `Blood Work,' the novel by Michael Connelly, was adapted by the inventive Brian Helgeland, who accomplished the amazing feat of condensing the baroque plot of James Elroy's `L.A. Confidential' into a well-constructed screenplay. It's an interesting and very telling choice for Mr. Eastwood, this novel, because it concerns a man living with the possibility that his body may reject its major organ, that he may not only be over the hill (this is the old-pro-comes-back-for-one-more-caper genre) but may actually DIE. With an actor/director who's an icon, the relationship between Terry and Clint is inevitably blurred.  Terry McCabe's cardiologist (played by Anjelica Huston) is an important element in the movie.  Eastwood has chosen a telling role for himself.  Old and craggy as he is, he seems indomitable.  I wonder if he'll still be acting in ten years' time, and if so what kind of roles he'll pick for himself  will he stop striding forward on those long legs and solve crimes from a wheelchair?You can't call `Blood Work' really vintage Eastwood.  It lacks the color of his spaghetti westerns, the charm of his comedies, or the minimalist elegance of `Unforgiven.' It's really not much different from a TV police procedural with a twist or two (but containing Clint Eastwood is a big twist).  Angelica Huston doesn't seem particularly well cast as a surgeon.  Paul Rodriguez plays a grating character -- a hostile policeman who resents McCabe's intrusion in his case -- in an equally grating and indeed endlessly irritating manner. It would be heartless to point out other inadequacies among the list of actors. Let's just say that the casting isn't brilliant, except for Eastwood himself and Jeff Bridges.  Bridges, a big, soft-looking actor who has so often played good-natured everymen, gets to do something much darker and more offbeat here and does it well.  There's a big glitch two thirds of the way through that suggests a scene was cut out without the necessary rewriting to smooth over the patch.`Blood Work' has a certain visual style &#150; bright, hard edged.  The plot is ingenious enough.   But all that really matters is the image of Clint Eastwood facing his own mortality.  He may do it more interestingly next time. "},{"Title":"It will not rank as one of Clint's best--just a serviceable thriller like his revolver.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In `Blood Work,' Clint Eastwood's retired FBI profiler has a new heart from a woman whose murderer he is determined to find.  While it is painful to watch an aging Eastwood worry about his heart throughout the film, it is comforting to know his symbolic heart is in great shape as he wins the love of a woman almost half his age. There's a moment when I hoped for a memorable line, but it left without a trace.  Leaving traces all over, however, are clues to the identity and motive of the serial killer, clues too soon and too obvious. Although Eastwood exudes watchable star power, his plot is too derivative and formulaic to be taken seriously. Eastwood is a superior director-he just needs to revive the originality he had in `Tightrope' or `Play Misty for Me.' In `Blood Work' he has some of the old magic, such as when his hero talks about a profiler's ability to draw connections.  In this film, the heart and blood connections and the connection between victim, murderer, and investigator are inventive motifs lost in the conventions of a genre needing revival, a genre Eastwood, as Dirty Harry, helped formulate.`Blood Work' is Clint Eastwood's 23rd film as director and 44th as star. He said, `It's a detective story and a human relationship story.' Adapted from Michael Connelly's popular novel, it will not rank as one of Clint's best--just a serviceable thriller like his revolver.  "},{"Title":"Eastwood's worst ever!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe the number of positive or semi-positivecomments/reviews this film has received. You gotta be  kidding?? Now don't get me wrong, I've been a fan of  Eastwood all my life but this film hardly even compares to any of his classic work, even though it resembles in both  pace and style a bland TV movie from the 70's. This is by FAR, Eastwood's worst, weakest film to date.It's almost like he's completely lost it, what the hellwas so interesting about this perfectly trivial story andwhy would anyone want to make a film of it? Eastwood'sdirection is flatter than a squished pancake, I've neverseen such run-of-the-mill overly banal  direction. Even the settings, locations and interiors were  dull, plain, cheap and lifeless. And Jeff Daniels  as a psycho? You gotta be kidding? Really this makes hislast 'so-so' film (True Crime) look like a work of genius. C'mon Clint give us another Unforgiven or Magnum Force. "},{"Title":"Bloody Good","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While not one of Eastwood's best films, Blood Work is a welcome diversion from the usual summer fare, which is why it will most likely fade quite quickly at the box office. Eastwood plays F.B.I. Special Agent Terry McCaleb who after being stuck down by a heart attack while chasing a serial killer (who's clues are left in a numeric code that McCaleb must break) is given a second chance at life by way of a heart transplant. Terry, however in true Clint fashion, is brought back into the fray by his heart donor sister who begs Terry to find her sisters killer. Distraught with the fact that he is alive today because of a murder, he decides to get as many leads as he can. From there we are brought into the usual serial killer cliches (cat & mouse games, cryptic clues, red herrings abound) but without as much gore as one is used to in such a film. Eastwood decides to focus on the story more than gross out effects and for this film it works. It must be said, however, that if you can't figure out the end of this movie by the halfway point, you clearly don't get out much. It doesn't feel so much as a whodunit as it feels like a when the heck is he going to figure it out. The mystery is practically solved by the end of the fourth reel; by a kid no less. Still the charm of this film rests on the man in charge. Eastwood seems to know what his audience looks for in one of his movies and tries to give them what they want. In all honesty, who wouldn't want to see Clint go after the bad guy with a giant cannon in his hand? He is the quintessential action movie hero no matter what the age. The supporting cast does a decent job as well with Jeff Daniels (as Terry's neighbor/driver/buddy/sidekick) and Paul Rodriguez (as a grizzled LAPD officer who can't stand Terry). Blood Work does nothing to advance Clint's career or the serial killer genre. But when stacked up against such serial killer thrillers such as the insipid Bone Collector, (as well as most of the films to come along this summer), it isn't bad at all by comparison. "},{"Title":"Vintage Eastwood. If you are a fan this is manna. If your not...too bad...it's still great!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is really hard to comment and not get caught up in a body of Eastwood work, but here goes.Clint is getting a little long of tooth and he doesn't have too try to hard to play a seriously ill ex-FBI criminal psychologist who has spent a career trying to profile a serial killer, but that begs the point.  The point is the man , Icon that he is, is still trying to extend the envelope with roles that play to his fan base but reach some of us who found him a bit trite over the past thirty years.Movies that take risks and cause one to think are rather rare these days.This one does both in the nature of the character development and the unique twists of the plot.Good movie.  Worth the full ride for ticket price. "},{"Title":"Absolutely God-awful","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just had the unfortunate experience of staying up late to watch a sneak of this at the theatre where I work. The other employees and I were literally laughing through the entire thing. I don't know if I can get across in this review just how sloppy, sluggish, and amateurish this movie was made. To me, a movie does not have to have action to keep me interested, in fact, movies with mostly dialogue - good dialogue - hold my interest just as much if not more. But this...this crawled along to the point where we just didn't know and didn't care who was doing what or why. Not that the filmmakers didn't try they literally repeated everything at least three times, in case we didn't get it the first time around. They spelled things out that, had they done their jobs right, we should have just gotten from visuals or just implications. And the story was absolutely trivial and, in a word, stupid. The funniest part about this drek was some of the lines. Allow me to recite She stood out like a whore in church. Wait, it gets better I like being jerked off. * I don't think so. I don't know. But I don't think so. * And later, when a Hispanic cop screams to Eastwood - who had a heart transplant from a Hispanic woman - Just because you got a Hispanic heart, don't make you one of us! Eastwood retorts Next time you come around here, this Hispanic's gonna kick your ass. Real great filmmaking. The only reason I can think of as to why Anjelica Huston agreed to be in this - in a role that has three brief scenes that lead her nowhere - is that she must be a good friend of Eastwood's. He simply needs to learn how to act, choose scripts, and direct a film. This was a laughable experience. If I were everyone involved in this film, especially the writer, I'd be horrified right now as the release date draws near, chewing my nails and thinking How the hell did I get involved with something like this? Utter waste of time. And I don't like to say something like that about most movies - I try and find something good about it. I don't like being that negative most of the time, but that's how BAD this is.  "},{"Title":"Dragged out of retirement and back to crime beat...","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a nice, suspenseful treat - a dramatic man-hunt thriller with soul - exploring the shadows of despair that may be faced by those in need of donor organs and the emotions of those who receive them, especially when life is saved through another's death.A terrific performance by Clint Eastwood! He fits well into the shoes of the McCaleb character, an aging detective, who does not pretend that his aging process comes with lots of physical boundaries to overcome. The movie has a cool way of introducing him &#150; he enters the screen as an active investigator on a case and subsequently returns two years later with an ailing physical condition. It's almost impossible not to be mesmerized by his character as he pieces and reasons out the twisted puzzles and joins the dots. Nevertheless, I do have my problems finding the character to be totally credible.  This convalescing detective is (*** minor spoilers***) capable of getting into tough falls and fast gunfights, feeding on high-cholesterol doughnuts, and having only a handful of incredibly pleasant folks to help him with the minuscule tasks. Yep, he does not slip into another heart attack! And those not with McCaleb seem to be the only meanies in the flick.Yet, I did enjoy this flick. The film's crime solver is a refreshing character, free from the  modern-day tactics of fighting crime, even in the contemporary settings of Southern Californian life. Notice that he's not using, for his detective work, any form of modern inventions?  Hey, guys, no cell phones, not even a laptop for our hero! It's entertaining to see how he handles the toughies&#133; in the old fashioned way, bringing to mind the likes of Lee and Dannay's Ellery Queen, Erle Stanley Gardner's Doug Selby and Chester Gould's Dick Tracy in their fight against crimes.Fans of Michael Connelly's book will applause to this adaptation of his book of the same title. It does capture the spirit of the book and the McCaleb's character his hellish journey. I was truly touched by the emotions McCaleb faces &#150; saving his own life and the Gloria Rivers' heart, or catching the twisted villain who's on a murderous rampage. However, the twists are there, but the clues are so obvious and come too soon. I have no doubt it's easy for all to get the picture quickly and solve the crime&#133; long before the movie ended.The overall diverse cast of actors provides solid performances. They come through as good supports for Eastwood's role. Tina Lifford is truly cool in her Sheriff's Detective Jaye Winston role. And I do enjoy watching Anjekica act out her toughness.  The film moves at a pleasantly furious pace. Lennie Niehaus' jazz score at the opening and end credits is stylistically striking.It's an enjoyable crime thriller that had made me yearn for more film adaptations of Michael Connelly's books.  "},{"Title":"Classic Eastwood Crime-cop Thriller Satisfies","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's long career has taken him into various dramatic landscapes, but the one he returns to most is the cop-crime thriller genre. In fact, if you'd guessed the `western', you wouldn't be that far off, since both themes are built upon a foundation that's very reminiscent of film noire, a cinematic technique found in most of Eastwood movies. His latest work, `Blood Work,' is his 23rd as a director and 44th as star, also repeats a trend he is consistent about portraying characters that are more like him as he is, not just as he wants to be as an actor. When Eastwood returned to the Western with Unforgiven in 1992, he portrayed an over-the-hill gunfighter coaxed to return, despite his better judgment, but finds that he inadvertently revels in it. The same element exists in `Blood Work', where he plays Terry McCaleb, an FBI detective who is forced to retire after collapsing from a heart attack while pursuing a serial killer, but is later coaxed into returning to investigative work to solve one more crime.In fact, that is basically the plot. Two years after his heart attack and subsequent retirement, he gets a heart transplant from a donor who happened to be the victim of an apparent store robbery. When the victim's sister points out that his new heart is her sister's, she convinces him that he owes it to her to help solve her unsolved murder, of which he was the beneficiary. It isn't long before he begins to piece together subtle clues, and before he knows it, he's reinvigorated by the chase again, yet torn about the realization that it's his presence that's the cause of it.What makes `Blood Work' so interesting is the wit and intelligence of the film overall. In addition, the coupling of Eastwood's ability to infuse his own age and fragility in his character, lends to the film's sense of authenticity. The plot is intriguing, puzzling, always moving forward, and suspenseful, and the process of solving puzzle is equally satisfying. I really enjoyed myself from beginning to end, even though I found it necessary to yell (to myself, but directed at a stupid actor), `NO! Don't do that!' It's almost always necessary to do that during a suspense thriller, because we, the audience, are always smarter than the characters.My only criticism of the film is the simplistic motivations of the villain. Sure, a serial killer is psychotic, and one don't necessarily have to be motivated by world events or other serious matters to push him over the edge, but it helps intensify the suspense and glory of the catch when the villain has some external motivation other than simple personal thrills. Background, history, a churning event in his past that triggered his psychotic behavior &#150; anything would help. But, to just have a killer to that kills `to feel connected' isn't exactly the most interesting motivation. In this case, it doesn't really hurt the film that much, but it would have helped to develop the villain a tad more than presenting him so two-dimensionally. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I know I already clicked the tab that warns readers about SPOILERS -- I'm going to give you one more chance to back out before reading my review...OK, you've been warned! Just got through watching Blood Work on Netflix. I have to say, I really liked it. Sure, it might've been a bit predictable to figure out who the killer was, but I don't think that was really the point of the movie.What I mean is, I think we, the audience, are supposed to be more disturbed by the killer's motive for doing what he's done than by who is actually responsible for the killings.I like these whodunit kind of movies and Clint Eastwood does a top-notch job of both acting and directing this very enjoyable thriller.I would gladly recommend this movie to others, including whoever is reading this review. Check it out, I think you'll really like it, I know I did. "},{"Title":"Formulaic and not up to Eastwood's talents","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was probably a pivotal movie for Eastwood, when he realised he could no longer play the classical he-man roles he had played till then. Highly improbable action sequences for an old guy with a heart transplant, an embarrassing love scene, and a supporting cast whose quirky mannerisms are meant to make them interesting but are nonetheless a bit irritating. Apparently, the public agreed with this assessment, since the movie's somewhat interesting premise (but I think there was something similar in an older Outer Limits episode) didn't translate into box office success. After, Eastwood channelled his considerable talents into a new and much more interesting direction. Too bad he had to make this somewhat self-indulgent and unsuccessful film before he realised it was time to move on. "}{"Title":"Okish","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood's Blood Work is a mystery thriller, but not all that good. I didn't really enjoy this film as much as I thought I would. I'm gonna keep this nice, neat and short, stay away from this unless your a fan of Clint Eastwood or just want to watch a film out of complete boredom. But Blood Work does have it's moments. There's a lot of action, and a lot of good Clint face expressions that we all love to see. But if you want to watch a Clint film one night, I don't really recommend this, I would go for something like Grand Torino or his westerns. An okish film, but I've seen much better.~~Jimmy "},{"Title":"Mr. Eastwood still has it when it comes to film-making","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Has Clint Eastwood done a bad movie yet? He certainly doesn't stop his great track record in the film industry here, thats for sure! A very intriguing story of a retired detective who has been asked to go back to his old line of work to find a killer on behalf of the victims sister. The catch is that Mr. Eastwood's character (McCabe) owns the victims heart, after he received transplant surgery from having an almost fatal heart attack. This movie is very intelligently directed and acted (nothing but the best from Clint!) and also has a unique twist in the plot towards the end (I kinda saw it coming but thats' o.k.) Overall I would suggest this movie to anybody who likes Clint Eastwood's work or finds entertainment in relaxing and being encompassed in a very intelligently made movie, turn your brain on before you watch it, this is no slacker movie! 7/10 stars no problem. "},{"Title":"Look at the IMDb rating","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably one of the few times that an IMDb rating has ever been accurate. Blood Work is the poster mark for 6/10. First, the characters were OK, but nothing special. I liked Clint in the movie, especially when he whipped out the shotgun and shot at the killer. Blood Work is a whodunit, with a villain that is right under your nose the whole time. He's somewhat obvious, but on the other hand, was hidden quite well. The woman whose sister got killed didn't interest me at all, to the extent that I forget her character right after the movie ended. Finally, the ending was OK, and was in place with the movie, but realism is suspect. There were a few parts that made me roll my eyes. Overall, Blood Work is worth its weight in gold. You just need to watch it until the end, which is not a relatively hard task, because it is pretty interesting. It's just one of those movies that are forgotten about hours after seeing it, like a movie that would play on TNT or USA every 5 hours.6 / 10 "},{"Title":"reasonable thriller","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With Eastwood here I got what I was expecting. While a bit slow and not too many action scenes the movie flows well.Not too many slow bits, not too much too leave you guessing unless you haven't seen these types of movies before.I could see the ending a mile away (though not the code which the child cracked, which led McCaled to solve the case), so when the killer was revealed it wasn't surprising. What was surprising was it was revealed earlier than I thought, with near 20 mins to go, I thought it should have ended then.It really should have ended here, once the killer is revealed there isn't much to keep you watching. It just drew it out more. "},{"Title":"Clot Eastwood","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw Blood Work on TNT several months ago and I can hardly remember anything about it. Not a good sign.Blood Work should be viewed in an edited form simply because it looks like a TV movie. It's all so wheezy and predictable that you shouldn't get mad at it--it's not worth the effort.Yet, Eastwood and the rest of the cast go through their respective motions in this murder/mystery that has the mildly interesting premise of a retired FeeBee with a transplanted heart hunting the killer of his donor. There are a few bright spots--Eastwood eating doughnuts with a couple of LA County detectives, strong female characters, and an attention to detail wherein Eastwood's hair is all matted down after a CT Scan or something. And those are the high points!You can see almost every geriatric twist and turn coming a mile away, but I guess that's part of its dull appeal. There's nothing ventured here.Unfortunately, there's nothing much gained either. "},{"Title":"People who read the book, should not watch this movie","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Compared to the book, it is rather disappointing, even if I am a big fan of Clint Eastwood  the first part is quite similar to the book and let us hope a great movie...But the second part leads us in a basic simple already seen movie, quite far from this excellent book. I knew a book had to be simplified before becoming a movie, but not at this point... I think Michael Connely was disappointed of the result? Anyway, some great books are not dedicated to become great movies... People who read the book, should not watch this movie  it is so simplified, that it prevents to understand anything, and, anyway, there is almost nothing less to understand. People who saw and, maybe, enjoyed the movie but didn't read the book...should read the book. "},{"Title":"A Poor Showing By Clint Eastwood","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of Clint Eastwood's poorer efforts. It might have been better if he hadn't both directed and acted. The plot has lots of potential, but it gets lost in unrealistic scenes. Based very loosely on FBI profiling, it scarcely introduces the concept. Several of the crime scenes are obviously staged, even to a non-police eye. The movie also contains some very lame and borderline racist jokes involving a Latino detective. Clint's love interest also comes across not as a believable plot element but more as an example of Hollywood pandering to the prerogatives of rich, powerful, and old white male director/actors. Speaking of pandering, watch for a couple bit parts played by Eastwood progeny. If you are a die-hard Clint Eastwood fan then you can probably be excused for wanting to see this movie. Otherwise, give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've always been a fan of Clint, but here he's done it again. He buys the film rights to a brilliant book, then proceeds to mess with the plot to suit himself. Blood Work was a great book by Michael Connelly, like all his books. (It's about time someone filmed a Harry Bosch story!) This is not a great film. If you need further proof, see Absolute Power. In that book the character Clint plays gets killed halfway through! Why does he do it??? If you like the book enough to make a film, then film the book, don't just use it as the basis of an idea! Right, time to put the soapbox away and rejoin humanity. That's all folks.  "},{"Title":"Some poetic justice...","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this suspense-less so called thriller, Clint is a retired FBI man trying to catch a serial killer. But poor old Clint is off to a bad start, since he just recently got a new heart. He whispers, and stumble along, careful not to bust a seam - but why worry - in this film he seems to be every woman's dream.Despite a decent beginning, the film will soon have your head spinning. There are many bumps in the road that are easy to spot, unfortunately they consist of some major holes in the film's weak plot.For the viewer, the case isn't difficult to crack, the clues are there in a huge stack. Every important thing is zoomed in, and explained at least twice - God forbid the audience should have to think for themselves otherwise. The killer's identity is quite obvious and clear, maybe Clint should rethink his detective career.The film is directed by Eastwood himself, but it should stay on the video shelf. And with that I end this little rhyme, hoping they all can do better next time. "},{"Title":"UNDERRATED!!!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood Work is one of Eastwood's finest films. The film may not be as accurate as  the book but it's close enough. This is a great murder mystery and it's great to  see Eastwood at it again. The supporting cast is great including Anjelica Huston  as the good Doctor Bonnie Fox. Wanda De Jesus as the woman wantingMcCaleb (Eastwood) to find her sister's killer. Tina Lifford as the gutsy Sherriff  Jaye Winston gives a good performance. Then there's Jeff Daniels asMcCaleb's neighbor Buddy who just sit's back and watches the world go by. Igive this film a solid ***1/2 out of ****. It should have been given some attention  at the Oscars but I guess you can't win them all. Watch this movie, it's worth it. "}{"Title":"ALL ABOUT PROMISE","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood has done it again. Blood work is Tightrope meet Dirty Harry. Unlike Dirty Harry, Terry McCaleb was a man who wants to know the truth on whoever and why. Persistance paid off for McCaleb, since the sheriff dept. were much more helpful than the police. And the lady sheriff showed her concerns about McCaleb when he didn't look right. Having a female heart doesn't make any man soft, but knowing how she died would make any man know how. Paul Rodriguez did very well playing the jerk detective talking about having a 'hispanic' heart won't make you one of us! Sometimes I wish that McCaleb who just put him in his place for once. Keeping the promise for the slain sister became the biggest payoff anyone could have. A BIG 10!  "},{"Title":"Clint MUST have been surrounded by Yes-men","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie should have been held up in production RIGHT after the dailies were seen on day one.  I cant believe this movie was even made.The acting was painful; from everybody for that matter.  I was wanting, no longing for Paul Rodrigez to get killed, so someone could put him out of his acting misery.  It was the worst acting job I've EVER seen in a studio picture.  It's like Paul is an aspiring student of  The Porno School of Acting.  Everyone seemed as if they were reading from cue cards.The story and screenplay was no better.  One could seen the ending from the very beginning.  It was boring, contrived, and we've all seen it a million times before.  The dialog was as cheesy as The Last Action Hero; except they MEANT for it to be so in that movie.This movie was laughable.  The entire theater was either laughing, or wincing throughout the whole picture.  Lifetime movies, and After School Specials are more entertaining, have better production value, and boast better stories than this piece of crap.  Everything wrong with Hollywood, is embodied in this movie. "},{"Title":"Worse than THE GAUNTLET","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a let down.  The last time Clint Eastwood directed a movie he also acted in, we got UNFORGIVEN.  Which is definitely one of the best western movies ever made.  It is at the top of my list of favorite cowboy movies.  So, I was expecting something similar from BLOOD WORK.Unfortunately, BLOOD WORK falls short of the standard set by UNFORGIVEN.  The biggest problem with the movie is the script.  The story is about Terry McCaleb, an FBI profiler who is hunting a serial killer.  He retires due to a heart attack and while recovering from heart transplant surgery, continues his hunt for the killer.  The way the movie is supposed to unfold is to drop a few clues here and there, and keep the audience in suspense.  It follows McCaleb on his search for the killer, and the tension is supposed to build as he gets closer and closer.  The problem is, it is SUPER obvious who the killer is right from the start of the movie!  I had the entire mystery solved within twenty minutes of the film opening.  So then I was forced to sit there and watch McCaleb labor away, chasing down wrong leads, and continuously having to explain to everybody who he was!  That was REALLY annoying!  If you watch this movie, try to count how many times he explains that, He is retired from the FBI and he is just checking out some leads for a friend.  On and on he keeps saying that!  The other problem with this movie is the killer is not motivated.  At the end, he gives a little speech about how he loved the lime light, blah blah blah.  But overall, the audience is expected to accept this guy is just a nut with nothing better to do than create a big intricate web of mystery for our hero to toil around in.  That was a huge let down. My final complaint is about the woman who played McCaleb's love interest, and the heart donor's sister.  Her acting was not at all convincing.  Although, to her credit, her character had the most difficult role demanding the most evocations.  But throughout the movie I found her acting to be downright distracting.  I guess I was able to notice these kinds of nuances because I was so bored with the plot as it lazily unfolded on the screen. I still like Clint Eastwood.  He is old, yes, he is tired, yes, but he doesn't try to hide it.  I think he still has a few good movies left to make.  But he had better pick up the pace next time.  I was bored out of my skull!Once again, I must say, the mystery was way too obvious.  I figured it out immediately and that made the movie boring.  If you did not figure out the mystery right away (not only who the killer was but also his obvious motive) then you were not paying attention. "},{"Title":"Nothing New","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's really nothing new in this cop drama. Eastwood plays his patented Tough Cop, mellowed by age and a brand new heart, and does everything you expect him to, including (but not limited to) defying his doctor's advice; chasing a suspect then shooting him while suffering a heart attack, but without once shouting, Stop in the name of the law, or whatever is required, even by the LAPD; having the female lead fall for him, despite an age difference Anna Nicole Smith could relate to; solving the case despite all the obstacles the authorities can throw at him.This is not a bad movie, it's just not a particularly good one. If you're hoping for another Unforgiven, or even a Dirty Harry, look elsewhere.But even Clint can't bat 1.000. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Clint","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint plays an aging profiler who has to undergo a heart transplant after facing a particularly nasty serial killer. Once he's back on his feet, he starts investigating the murder of the woman who's heart he has inside him. Could there be a link between this case and the serial killer he was investigating before? I tried thinking very hard if Clint had ever mad a bad film. I couldn't think of one. They're not all brilliant, of course, but usually his movies are pretty good. Blood Work is his most mediocre, especially of his later films. It's not bad and certainly not boring, it's just nothing special either. It's relatively slow-moving, it's VERY predictable and it has some annoying plot holes as well.Clint's very good as the aging profiler, but his relationship to a much younger woman is not all that believable. Jeff Daniels makes an O.K. supporting character but the rest are just cardboard characters. Those two detectives are real clichés.Anyway, while very predictable (can't stress that point enough) the film is actually quite enjoyable in it's own right, a pleasant enough time filler on a slow night. "},{"Title":"Can't believe Clint directed this POS","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've seen in years. It's hard to believe Clint could direct such a masterpiece like Mystic River, and direct such a piece of garbage like Blood Work. The acting in this movie was horrendous. I've seen students in an Acting 101 class with superior talent. Angelica Huston plays his doctor and she does so with the professionalism of an abusive parent. Not only does she have absolutely NO ability to remotely act like a doctor, much of her on screen time she spends literally yelling and even cursing at her patient played by Clint. Pahleeze! Even Clint's performance is as dry and dull as unsalted Saltine Crackers. And Paul Rodriguez's only point in being in this movie was to yell at Clint's character. Why would he take this role? Afraid to tell Clint Eastwood that you have something better...doing standup. I won't go into the story, but say it's as predictable as they come. I guess storyline throughout and predicted who the killer was about 20 minutes into the movie.They had a $50 million budget on this movie? Really? What was it spent on?Clint must have been taking $30 million of it, because there was NOTHING in this movie that deemed expensive. Well...they had a helicopter for one scene, that was outrun and outmanuvered by two men on FEET! Hey, spotlight is on the running men one minute, the next, there in a dark alley doing a standoff all by themselves, and then magically a minute or two later, hey there it is again. Please, what is this garbage?They surely didn't spend any movie on the soundtrack. Because there wasn't any. They would have pivotal scenes in the movie and it while the actors were trying to make it suspenseful, it was so quiet, you could almost here crickets chirping.The editing was bad, the camera work was bad, and in one scene where Clint and his new love interest were walking along the shore line, the sun was setting. You could see Clint alright, but his love interest was a black woman playing a hispanic, and you could hardly see her. She was a shadow. On top of that, they shot it on such a windy day, her hair was blowing all over her face. It was absolutely pathetic.I could go on and on picking out glaringly bad mistakes and terribly written dialogue and achingly bad acting, but I'll spare you. Clint was trying to be an action star one last time here, and it doesn't work for a 70 year old man.By the time I was 1/2 way through this movie I was ready to watch something meaningful in comparison, like Baywatch. No but really, I would have turned it off in a second, if it wasn't for my wife who wanted to see if who I predicted was correct. Save your time, pass on this movie, you'll have more entertainment watching Sesame Street with your kids.  "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have never been so far ahead of a film in my entire life.  Once everything was established, I had the entire thing figured out from plot point to plot point.  What would lead them to the next clue which would lead them to which particular next clue, etc.  Fantastically, stunningly predictable.  The entire time it was, get there faster!  I still watched the whole thing, though.  It was still watchable for Clint, and especially for Jeff Daniels, whom I usually don't like. "},{"Title":"Bloody Adaptation!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though the novel by Michael Connelly is the usual run of the mill thriller, it does not deserved to be botched and lobotomized like this.The first half of the film copied the book verbatim, like a word for word copy, Connelly deserved a credit for it. Even Eastwood delivered the lines like he's reading (he's not conversing actually, he's like reading!) from the book. Then halfway through, Helgeland turned the novel upside down. Nothing much actually, he just changed the identity of the killer, who was a good guy in the book! I remember when Tom Clancy was very angry with the way The Clear and Present Danger (a character was killed, who is present in Clancy's succeeding novels)was adapted, if I'm Connelly, I would be similarly mad.This is for me a botched job, if you read the book don't watch this.   "},{"Title":"Hollywood Meltdown","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An interesting, stylish, well done, (even if predictable) detective murder mystery for the first hour 15 minutes. Then the typical, ridiculous, over the top, outlandish, Hollywood ending kicks in and ruins the whole package. Never quite sure if it's the lack of talent on the part of the writers or just what the Hollywood formula dictates because they think the audience needs some big so called `suspenseful climax' to be satisfied.  I expected much better from Eastwood at this point in his career. A low point in films under his direction.     "},{"Title":"Poorly written and terribly predictable","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can only hope the book was better.  Unfortunately after seeing this film I don't really have a desire to read the book.  The plot was as predictable as they get and I spent the entire film looking for Angela Lansbury and Dick Van Dyke thinking this was a new episode of Murder She Wrote.  Clint needs to accept the fact that he's too old to be Dirty Harry again and just stay behind the camera.  I'm as disappointed as the next guy that he never one an acting Oscar but making junk like this isn't going to do it for him.3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"decent plot, poor acting","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Monday evening is a sacred night for movies. Couple of friends, each get a turn to choose a dvd. I was never a fan of clint eastwood. I see him as a two-dimensional actor, fit only for westerns. And this film confirms it. The plot was decent and kept most of us going till the end (although i guessed who the baddy was from the beginning). The acting was awful and tedious. Even in scenes where most human beings would be sh***ing their pants, our main actor (who had just received a heart transplant two months before) was strolling around as if in a park feeding pigeons. I think i caught him yawning too! Well, most of us where asleep by the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Please, stop the pain.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say, that I am pretty sure this is the WORST film I have ever seen.  I would have walked out of the theater, but I was too busy writhing on the floor in agony.  LilStar basically summed it up well, check out that review if you want to know why we hated this movie so.  Please, save your money, and if you are really interested, donate your eight bucks to a charity or something.*blech* "},{"Title":"The 10 Most Uncomfortable Things about This Movie !","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1 - Clint Eastwood as FBI profiler (WAW !! Not a police inspector??) but you know what ! There wasn't much big difference except that Eastwood here is much older.. much sensitive.. much weaker (as a Director, producer and as a star couldn't choose the right hit). 2 - What a funny ending (funny as laughable !) 3 - Wonderful music but at the credits only, and by the way it's just a jazz arrangement for Chris Rea's great song On the beach. 4 - A love affair between Eastwood and Wanda De Jesus which contains a bed involving ! OH GOD !! He was 72 years old at the time !! But HEY love is for all the people and all the ages too !! So the old pensioner ex-dirty Harry !! 5 - Jeff Daniels here is just a jerk !! 6 - What a screenplay indeed. It didn't MAKE OUR DAY ! Not as an action thriller or a profiler strange story about a heart leads to its killer or anything coherent believable or worth watching ! 7 - It's only a customary and mediocre piece of work which for sure will make you disappointed especially when you have it right after (Space Cowboys - 2000), and just before (Mystic River - 2003) and (Million Dollar Baby - 2004). 8 - Actually (and get ready for this one)  the budget of this very movie was 50,000,000 dollars !!! There isn't enough exclamation marks ! 9 - There is no memorable quotes in a Clint Eastwood's movie !??.. What a Shame ! 10 - Eastwood wanted to continue in the shadow of the sensitive violent (William 'Bill' Munny) of his masterpiece (Unforgiven) 10 years earlier. Yet in another usual commercial action which had No action, and in a mystery one which had a real dull mystery. So what's good in here anyway ? Though the answer would be having 110 min of the good old Clint Eastwood being on screen ! "},{"Title":"Full of gimmicks and plot holes.","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've heard people say I guessed the ending to this movie XX minutes in, and in this case, it took me 30 or 45 minutes. Once I figured out who the main badguy was, it was just a matter of sitting through the rest of the movie to see how Clint Eastwood put 2 + 2 together and made 4.As it turns out, Mr. Eastwood doesn't do a very good job of doing this. This movie is rife with plot holes, continuity errors, and gimmicky reasonings that truly leave you feeling that the characters were written in the direction of the ending, rather than believing that they are acting as real people.Ultimately, a stilted story and rigid writing ruin what could have potentially been a good film. I'm giving this movie a 2 out of 10 rather than a 1 because nobody takes 1-out-of-10 votes seriously, right? "},{"Title":"worst movie ever.","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" the story that this movie tells, could have been so good. after hearing about how great an actor/director/etc clint eastwood was... i watched it. it was the single worst movie i've ever seen. the dialog was worse than a cheap porn movie. based on this movie, i swore i'd never see another clint eastwood movie. there were parts of the movie that shined, but they were all when the actors didn't talk. it wasn't that the actors were bad, or that the dialog was even written poorly. it was simply directly horribly. it was like clint was sitting there yelling at them telling them to annunciate each word incorrectly, to put emphasis on the wrong syllables, and to pause awkwardly after every few words.i say that it has to be the direction, because each actor/actress did this. it wasn't isolated to a single character. perhaps they were reading from queue cards. who knows. "},{"Title":"Harry done got old","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Average serial killer show picturing an aging cop able to run block after block before having an acute myocardial infarction. Interesting story but a little too pat for me; I actually guessed the killer well before he showed his true colors - a rare event for me. All the usual characters; tough cops, a female boss with the proper ethnicity, shrewd bad guy, and a near genius super cop who knows not the meaning of quit.  "},{"Title":"A Bloody Interesting Film","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood once again plays a detective but for the FBI, Terry McCaleb. He does not handle a gun very well and his body in this film needs a new transplanted heart. McCaleb was unable to catch a serial code killer and suffers a heart attack while tracking the killer down. Wanda De Jesus plays Graciella Rivers, the sister of the heart donor for McCaleb. Graciella's sister was killed in a store holdup, or was it just a store holdup? Graciella asks for the retired FBI man to help solve the murder. This round of murders is not what it seems but turns out to involve the forced harvesting of organs and rare blood types. Jeff Daniels plays Buddy Noone, a friend and wantabe detective that McCaleb involves in the case. Clues and good old fashion footwork are the only things that can solve these crimes. Advanced computers are unable to break the original code in the 2 year old serial crimes until a little boy gives the answer to McCaleb. Full of action and intellectual stimulation of the gray cells makes this Eastwood outing one of his best. Wonderful performances by Daniels and De Jesus need to be mentioned also.  "},{"Title":"You've got to have heart.","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A no non-sense, no surprise Clint Eastwood vehicle. This crime drama finds a retired FBI profiler(Eastwood)trying to find the killer of his own heart transplant donor. A couple of tricky twists keeps the mystery alive. Is it wrong to have the finale being about the only exciting part of the movie? Maybe a little below par measuring by Eastwood's standards; but still a very entertaining movie. The diverse cast includes Jeff Daniels, Paul Rodriguez and Anjelica Huston. Daniels proves that he can tackle any role. Beware of rapid heart thumping...it could be your own. "},{"Title":"Never watch a movie with my parents","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was spending this evening at home watching TV with my parents. Blood Work was on and it seemed to be a movie that could even be understood by two over 60 year olds who usually only watch made for TV-crime stories that a 10 year old could have thought up. Well, I made a terrible mistake. Although Blood Work is really not too complicated and as predictable as can be - if you waste as much time watching movies as I do you'll figure out who the killer is and why about halfway through - my folks just didn't get it. Even worse, my father just didn't want to enjoy the movie for pointing out it's logical flaws. Yes, I know that it doesn't make sense that Eastwood would start shooting at a suspect in the middle of the road, but what can you do about it? Yes, it is a bit annoying that every American thriller has to end with the hero and the villain fighting against each other. It isn't very realistic, but hell, if the police just came and arrested the bad guy it wouldn't be very entertaining, right? The most annoying thing about this was that I had to defend a mediocre movie against my father who rants against everything as a matter of principle. The truth is that Blood Work is about as cumbersome as its main character. It's a miracle that Clintwood was still capable of directing great movies like Mystic River after such a lukewarm piece of work. Blood Work isn't a complete failure but there are more exciting things to watch in your spare spare time. Whatever you do, just don't watch it with my parents. "},{"Title":"Bloodwork Becomes A Routine Clint Eastwood Action Film","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work is a mystery suspense thriller film produced, directed by, and starring Clint Eastwood. The film also features Jeff Daniels, Wanda De Jesús, and Anjelica Huston. It is based off the novel of the same title by Michael Connelly.In the story,FBI agent Terry McCaleb goes outside to address the media when he spots the killer in the crowd during a murder investigation. But the chase ends after McCaleb suffers a heart attack.Now retired, he lives in a houseboat on the San Francisco bay. He is approached by a woman named Graciella Rivers, who's sister was killed during a robbery and asks him to solve the case. It gets personal when McCaleb realizes the victim was the woman who's heart was transplanted into him. Terry McCaleb is an ailing veteran FBI agent who has been given a second chance at life by receiving the heart of a murder victim. Terry is visited by the murder victim's sister, Graciella Rivers, who informs him that he is alive only because of receiving the deceased's heart and asks him to investigate who killed her.McCaleb defies the advice of his physician, Dr. Bonnie Fox, and sets out to find the killer with the help of his neighbor Buddy No one, who lives on a houseboat near his, and a local police detective, Jaye Winston.Before long, despite these drawbacks, McCaleb discovers evidence which suggests the murderer may be a serial who uses random street robberies as a cover, but he finds that Ronaldo Arrango and John Waller, the police detectives assigned to the case, are not especially interested in sharing the glory with the former FBI point man.The movie was interesting from beginning up to the three-quarters of the film when Terry is near in solving the murder mystery and homicide case.But it becomes a routine Clint Eastwood film during the last quarter of the film when Terry is near in identifying the murderer.When he realizes that the murderer is an old enemy during his FBI days who happens to be the serial code killer,the viewer may lose interest as it becomes an traditional action film wherein everything becomes predictable and clichéd.Too bad that the movie had a great premise about a murderer killing for blood and organ donation as it sounds interesting and refreshing especially for a murder mystery film.It was written very well and it never runs out of intelligence,suspense and tension in the first three-quarters but it loses steam when in the last quarter as I have stated earlier.What also does not work in the film is the romance between Terry and Graciella Rivers.It looks silly.Just like what I have said,when it became a routine action film,the hero needed a love interest which I believe isn't really necessary in the story. But overall,I still recommend this film inspite of its flaws for it never falls short in entertainment. "}{"Title":"Serviceable, but nothing to write home about","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Perfectly serviceable police-private eye-mystery, worth viewing if it's on a channel sometime, but not something to go out of your way to see.One of those whodunits where the game is given away thanks to the casting. There's a twist to the motive, but once that's clear, the rest is solve-it-by-numbers.Shame, because Michael Connelly (the original author) writes good thrillers - but this one didn't translate to the screen especially well.While Mr Eastwood's commands the audience's attention (as usual), it's not his finest hour behind the camera, with the enterprise looking a little pedestrian at times. Indeed, there are some scenes that look a little like a 1970's Mystery Movie, with not enough budget to fill the screen.All in all, it does not serve the source material well, and is a little underwhelming by the final credits. "},{"Title":"It's not up there with some of Eastwood's others,but it's still a decent thriller.","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We all know that everything Clint Eastwood touches is gold.I've started to catch up on the movies he's done that i've missed. I stumbled across one. Called Blood work, that wasn't gold, but still worked as a thriller.Eastwood stars and directs himself as Detective Terry Mcaleb.He's just had a heart transplant,and has gone into early retirement. One day, after visiting the hospital, a woman(Wanda de Jesus), who's sister gave her heart to Terry, asks Terry to find her sister's murderer.There are side characters. Jeff Daniels plays Terry's neighbor. Paul Rodrieguez and Dylan Walsh have small roles as two cops who are jealous of Terry and try to bring him down,sort of. And Anjelica Huston plays Terry's bossy doctor.Eastwood,Daniels, and Huston all do very well. And so does Jesus(her last name isn't Jesus, she's Spanish). I was entertained by this movie. Eastwood is a good storyteller, and has a way of putting together a thriller, like he did with Changeling and Midnight and the garden of good and evil.But I found the movie to have a flaw. The answer to who the killer is is so obvious. Eastwood shouldn't be blamed for this,because he didn't write the book. Michael Connelly did. I also found some of the whole rivalry between cops thing to be a cliché also.It's not as good as Eastwood's Mystic river(my favorite), Million dollar baby, Changeling, or Gran Torino. It's not his best but not his worst.It's a decent thriller. An underrated Eastwood movie. I'm reccomending it, but keep in mind that the answer to who the killer is is very obvious. Just a warning.B+ "},{"Title":"Book vs. film","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have always been against comparing books to films, usually people say the book was so much better....I always think, it should be. A book can cover so much more,look how much had to be left out of The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo film. Though, I must say I preferred the film of Atonement to the book. Back to the film in question, Michael Connelly is a fantastic crime writer, this film changes the plot and has nowhere near the impact the book creates. I recently started, though have not finished A Clockwork Orange. It is a short book, but already I am thinking the film has improved on the book, it's all personal opinion of course. "},{"Title":"Good, not Great...","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Loosely based on the 1998 novel by the same name from Edgar Award-winning writer Michael Connelly, 'Blood Work' ranks amongst the better films of legendary filmmaker/actor Clint Eastwood. But clearly, not amongst his finest. Reason ? The culmination, the twist in the tale, is a downer! Otherwise, it runs well.Eastwood stars as Terry an ailing veteran FBI agent who's been given a second chance at life by receiving the heart of a murder victim. Terry is visited by the murder victim's sister, played by Wanda De Jesus, who informs him that he is alive only because of receiving the deceased's heart and asks him to investigate who killed her.'Blood Work' is a terrific film, until, it reaches it's finale. The first hour, the first 60-minutes, especially, are very interesting and gripping. The culprit in any suspense thriller, should catch you by surprise. But the culprit in here and his motives come across as immature. And that's the reason why you don't, at least I, didn't feel energetic once the ends credits rolled.Eastwood's direction is good. How one wishes if he could've worked on a better culmination! Tom Stern's Cinematography is perfect. Joel Cox's editing doesn't jerk.In the acting department, Eastwood is dedicated and is in sync with his character from start to end. Jeff Daniels is excellent. It's sad that this talent hasn't been lapped up, despite delivering such memorable performances all through. Anjelica Huston is mechanical this time around. Wanda De Jesus is good. Paul Rodriguez hams.On the whole, 'Blood Work' does work, but not big time. Nearly, a Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Blood Work","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood is a very reliable actor and director, and has proved himself with Unforgiven and Million Dollar Baby being brilliant, and this was another one I decided to try. Basically Terry McCaleb (Eastwood) retires from the FBI as a profiler after having a heart transplant, and no plans to go into action and put his new heart at risk. That is until he is hired Graciella Rivers (Wanda De Jesus) to investigate the death of her sister Gloria, who donated the heart that saved Terry's life. As he investigates, Terry finds that it is not only a murder and supposedly random robbery, but it may be the same serial killer he chased and gave up on when he had his heart attack. Terry gets help from boat neighbour and good friend Jasper 'Buddy' No one (Jeff Daniels) and Dr. Bonnie Fox (Anjelica Huston), and some negative opinions from Det. Jaye Winston (Tina Lifford) and Det. Ronaldo Arrango (Rat Race's Paul Rodriguez). Terry comes close twice to catching the person responsible, and comes to the conclusion that the good Samaritan that called the ambulance for Gloria was in fact the killer. But he is even more shocked when it turns out Buddy is the one behind the whole thing, and that he killed Gloria for her rare blood type, same as Terry's, to give him the heart he needed to live, but don't worry, everything is put right in the end. Also starring Dylan Walsh as Detective John Waller, Mason Lucero as Raymond Torres, Gerry Becker as Mr. Toliver and Rick Hoffman as James Lockridge. Eastwood does alright both acting and directing, the support, especially from slightly unexpected villain Daniels, is good, and it a story with some average twists and turns along the way, so while it isn't exciting, it is an alright murder mystery thriller. Okay! "},{"Title":"Very well rendered, though not too gory","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a real good thriller because it is entirely logical. A serial killer follows a certain logic, a logic that becomes certain little by little for us, as it does for the police provided the police does not decide that the first approach is the only one possible. The film shows very well that the logic of the killer has to be reconstructed through a trial and failure procedure. In this case it is determined by the game of cat and mouse the killer is playing with the cop he has more or less chosen as his partner, if we can call that pair work partnership. But in fact it is and the cop as much as the killer need each other to exist. That is what's vicious about this film. The cop needs the killer without whom he does not exist at all. And that's why it is so difficult for him to kill the killer at the end because they have become intimate. But yet the thriller is not as intense as it could have been because Eastwood avoid the gross part of serial killing and the crime scenes are never that dirty, that disgusting, that heavily shown, and since we are in a film we know the solution will come and we are only trying to follow the track that leads to the killer, along with the cop. In this case the signature was given from the very start though the police thought it was a code. It was not. It was a riddle revealing the name of the killer, and it took an eight year old boy to see it and the cop took quite a few or a couple of days before realizing what was so obvious right under his eyes. And then he discovers that the killer had also foreseen this epiphanic moment and was ready, very well prepared for the final fight, though he had maybe over-estimated the gratefulness of the cop for having provided him with a life in a way; or in fact in two ways, but you will have to discover how. And that is maybe this slower dimension of the film that makes it more human and less gory like so many about serial killers. More a reflection about life, and death, and a sad picture of the hatred and rivalry that poison the police bodies and agencies and work in Los Angeles, even if we know that it is not the exclusive characteristic of Los Angeles, far from it.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"Although enjoyable, a weak entry in Eastwood's career","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was fun to watch, but I couldn't help but note all of the flaws and bad twists.This is basically an anti-Dirty Harry movie, with it being so against violence as many of Eastwoods later films are. This movie seems to be stuck in between Eastwood's older movies and his newer ones. It has the older elements of the tough wise-cracking cop, the woman falling for the protagonist, the no rules concept he abides by. There's newer elements too such as showing how violence is bad and all of that stuff. However the mix isn't exactly perfect. Plus there are a lot of things that occur in this movie that I didn't catch onto.Eastwood is pretty good as Terry McCaleb, a tough cop who shows that he is not so tough at the same time. Jeff Daniels really steals the show as Buddy No one, McCaleb's goofy neighbor and friend. Wanda de Jesus is decent as the attractive Graciella Rivers, the woman who hires McCaleb to find out who murdered her sister. Tina Lifford is good as Detective Jaye Winston, McCaleb's cop friend. Paul Rodriguez is terrible as Detective Arrango, McCaleb's buddy. I don't know if he's supposed to be stupid or funny, either way the humor went right by me.Over all, not too bad of a movie, but definitely one of Eastwood's weakest that I've seen so far.6/10. "},{"Title":"Old Work.","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had seen this movie in television.I was happy before seen it cause,this will be a crime-drama,with Clint Eastwood I sad to myself inside.While I watched this I felt it was too slow to take attention.(So it was mostly boring)And that is why this film is not a typical 7/10 for me.The used twists making the situation worst.The smell comes from far,it was just another chance to make money,only cause Clint Eastwood is in a film.The old cop movie again,but it's hard to say ,or it's impossible to say there is originality in this movie.So only Clint Eastwood fans cold have a good time,with a film,which is too old to be a great new adventure,with the old cop movie basic.3/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty fair film","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood directs and stars in this film that's a little bit different from his previous detective roles. Keeping in mind that he's now a few years into senior citizenship, he could hardly do the Harry Callahan thing anymore. Instead, he plays an FBI Profiler retired by a heart attack. A couple years later, he receives a heart transplant despite being a very rare blood type. Then the plot twists begin. It turns out that the heart donor was a homicide victim. The victim's sister (nicely played by Wanda de Jesus) puts 2 and 2 together and asks him to help find her sister's killer. During the investigation, Clint asks his unemployed, lazy neighbor (Jeff Daniels) to help him. It turns out that this is the same killer Clint was tracking when he had his heart attack. This is very well-written, easy to follow, but difficult to figure out. Overall, very nicely done. "},{"Title":"60 year old man still using a gun in movie","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Easwood is over 60 years old now and he is still the main character in action movies.Clint was a good action star in the 60', 70's, and 80's but the 90's he is action movies was not that great.Now in the 21 century and he is still the action star in this movie.I think that Clint had his time for being the action star in movies, he should only be in drama, adventure, or even comedy movies now.They should'voe taken somebody else to play the character Terry McCaleb in this movie, maybe even Tommy Lee Jones etc.Clint should'voe just stayed the directer for this movieJust Because Clint was not the best actor to be the main character it doesn't mien it's still not a good movie.The plot was excellent and it just keeps you guessing for who the bad guy is.It is still a good movie and if you never seen it before, go rent it one day It's worth watching.I rate this movie a 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Old man Clint just keeps getting older","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm generally a fan of Clint Eastwood and like his work most of the time, he's been in plenty of standout movies, but this ones a standout for all the wrong reasons. Blood Work is ordinary at the best of times, it was almost engaging for about 5 minutes there somewhere although I think it's safe to say it's the most boring film I've ever seen Eastwood in. The first scene gives you a sense it's run of the mill moviemaking and it never really improves from there. Blood Work doesn't come within coo-ee of any benchmarks, except maybe the oldest lead of the decade.Jeff Daniels saves this movie from complete disaster, he adds the slightest amount of spark only just enough to be worthy of a mention.Script, directing and acting are all relatively poor, Eastwood has shown he can do much, much better but ultimately fails himself in Blood Work. The whole film seemed rushed together and made on a tight budget, it was probably profitable at the box office yet didn't deserve to be. Despite my harsh judgement the film isn't terrible, just below standard a bit, some might find it mildly entertaining. If your a fan of Eastwood or Daniels it might be worth a chance, or if there's nothing else on TV.Just tolerable. "},{"Title":"Workmanlike thriller","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While there are things I liked about this movie--it freely admits the main character is too old and weak to be chasing after killers and its subject matter is unique--the awful dialogue, the slipshod production values, and the plot holes take it down a few notches. Brief summary Eastwood plays a retired FBI profiler who has had a heart transplant and gets called out of retirement to solve the murder of the young woman whose heart he now uses. Eastwood is famous in the business for making films quickly and under budget and in this movie it shows. There were moments when I thought, 'surely there must have been more than one take of this?' Eastwood even stumbles over a phrase and they still used the take. According to the lore, Eastwood tells the actors to do a scene, assuring them they're just rehearsing or that he's merely adjusting the focus. The actors then do a relaxed take and then Eastwood says, 'okay, that was pretty good, let's just use that, next.'  There is also a credit for a film score, but I don't recall hearing much if any background music, something that certainly could have added atmosphere, especially in a supposed thriller.My other complaints with this movie also include its dialogue, especially the canned exchanges between Rodruigez and Eastwood.  Rodruigez plays an LAPD cop who obviously resents Eastwood's investigating a murder even though Eastwood's character is no longer a cop and doesn't even have a Private Eye license. The forced animosity between the two is so stock and stilted it's almost comical. There are other stock characters and situations that give this movie the look and feel of one of his dated Dirty Harry movies. At one point, Eastwood's character fires a shotgun into a car that he has seen more than once at a particular murder scene, and this without any questioning or provocation. For a few moments he is Dirty Harry again, and it doesn't work.And finally the plot holes. I would discuss these in more detail except that to do so would introduce spoilers. What I can say is that there are more than ample clues in the movie as to who the real killer is, enough so that I figured out the plot about one third the way through, and that's way too soon, especially considering that I don't usually figure this kind of thing out that quickly.This movie is worth a late night watch on HBO or maybe even a video rental, but that's about it. It's not a film I would buy. Stars ** "},{"Title":"Proof that novel to movie conversion can be a disappointment - a few minor spoilers","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contains a couple of possible hinted spoilers.I desperately got through reading the Michael Connelly novel 'Blood Work' for two reasons - a) it was compelling reading b) having read the first few chapters i thought to myself, this would make a great movie, and discovered that it had been made into this Clint Eastwood movie - i was eager to see what they had done to it. It was basically the same plot, but for some vital changes as the story unfolded, which were far too hollywood for my liking - they turned what would have made the conversion from novel to movie a storming success into a heart-related hollywood murder movie. Of course, people tend to say that the movie is never as good as the book, but i watched it with someone who had not read the book - he said the movie was slightly predictable, but worth watching. The plot twists did not seem to shock as much as they should have done, it was a bit too much oh, i didn't see that coming, rather than wow!! i would never had thought that was going to happen!!. Clint Eastwood, while giving a good performance, was slightly too intense - i imagined his character to be more lively - perhaps a slightly younger actor would have been more suitable, the amorous relationship between him and graciela is rather cringeworthy, as he seems old enough to be her father. There were good perfomances from Jeff Daniels and the actor who plays 'Arrango' - thoroughly convincing as a bitter detective. Overall, i would recommend this to people who are after a more original murder solving movie - purely because of the heart-related plot, but i would recommend reading the book more - it excels in everything the movie seems to do half-heartedly (no pun intended), not to mention being a different, and more intricate/interesting, story by the end! "},{"Title":"Efficient Crime Thriller","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A well made thriller which for the three quarters of its length is riveting entertainment.  Unfortunately its impact is lessened by a typical Hollywood action thriller climax.  Eastwood is in good form and is on screen throughout whilst Daniels provides good support.  Although some of the cop characters are a little cliched and two-dimensional in their stubborness and stupidity there is a depth here absent in most big cop thrillers of the day. Elements of two of Eastwood's best nineties films (IN THE LINE OF FIRE and TRUE CRIME)are present here and the star is still a major presence. "},{"Title":"blood work fails","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, Clint is 73 and has clearly seen better days as have I. Clint is an artist, a star, an icon and a money maker no doubt. So what...Blood Work sucks...period. The worst film I've ever seen Clint direct, star in or be involved with in any way. What a stupid mess. I don't recall ever seeing a more ridiculously telegraphed, supposedly surprise bad guy. Anybody who has watched even teevee much less so called sophisticated films has this one figured out almost immediately.  Don't get me wrong...I'm not about destination. Film is not about figuring out whodunit. Many Hitchcock films reveal the killer immediately...Maybe that's what Clint should have done intentionally instead of semi-intentionally. Let's face it...Clint like Woody has a corre audeince and he will always make money but Clint also like Woody is looking more and more like a freak with every film he makes. I am sad because these guys are my heroes but dayum...this one stinks. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Mystery","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's fine directorial career stumbles in this lackluster thriller.  From the title, which ultimately gives away too much, to the uninspired actors surrounding Eastwood's hero character, this movie failed to satisfy.  The romantic element was uncovincing, the plot cliched and Eastwood's direction was as wooden as his character.  Maybe Clint should stick with something other than thrillers as they have not been strong suit. Oh, for another Outlaw Josey Wales - though someone other than Eastwood should star! "},{"Title":"Clint is the man","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Eastwood plays a retired F.B.I. Profiler who's heart has been replace by a murdered woman heart. There are clues that you need to look for that run over the course of the movie.  These little clues tie things together But the surprise for me was the performance of Jeff Daniels as Buddy Nooone.  I have never given much thought of Daniels career.  But his performance one of his best in his careers.  "},{"Title":"Solid but painfully predictable","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie as such is ok. Good script (retired FBI-cop founds out his donor heart belonged to a victim of a deadly shooting and offers the sister to help finding the culprit) and acceptable performances by Eastwood (although the guy should do something about his rasped voice) and Daniels. Unfortunately, I knew after 20 minutes who the killer was. In a whodunit movie, that's way too early. A pity. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably predictable","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *Spoiler* (if you could call it that)I won't reveal the identity of the killer in Blood Work. I don't have to. Just watch the first 20 minutes of the film and you'll know who it is. I've never seen a movie this predictable.On the plus side, it's nice to see Clint back in a Dirty Harry type role. Vulnerable yet cold-blooded when we want him to be. Also, I like the fact that he can't drive a car, has to take plenty of medication and nap regularly. It adds realism.  On the other hand, Clint better lay off the love scenes from now on. He's not the studly man he used to be and watching him bed a chick 30 years his junior is a bit awkward.As a thriller, it didn't work for me, mainly because I knew beyond a shadow of a doubt who the killer was...Tip to Clint in a thriller where you know the unidentified killer is just dying to unveil himself at the end, he obviously has to have some screen time. Otherwise, when he finally shows himself,  the audience will say who the hell is that? Therefore, you have to have plenty of suspects to choose from. Here, you only get one and that's the killer. Yawn. "},{"Title":"I knew it (warning spoilers)","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning (Spoilers) -I really enjoyed this movie until I saw where it was going towards the end. Any idiot could have figured out that Jeff Daniels was the killer long before he made himself known. But I guess Clint never watched Dressed To Kill, or more recently Kiss the Girls or The Bone Collector (the latter two, sucking). There are plenty of great thrillers where the killer isn't a close acquaintance of the cop trying to catch them. I.E.- Silence of the Lambs, Se7en, ect. I mean, it doesn't even make sense to have the killer be friends with the cop, anyway. Oh well, I'm done ranting. I gave it a 6 out of 10 because the first hour and a half was really good. Although the Paul Rodriguez was completely unnecessary. "}{"Title":"good director, bad movie","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First let me say that I have always enjoyed Clint's work.  He's been an idol of mine since puberty.  Not only as a tough-guy actor, but as a director too.Besides his kick-ass westerns, he's directed successful films as diverse and touching as; Bridges of Madison County (1995) A Perfect World(1993), White Hunter, Black Heart (1990), Bird (1988), and Honkytonk Man (1982).That's why I don't understand how he can turn around and make a films as disjointed and uncomfortable as Absolute Power (1997) or BloodWork (2002).Both movies were somehow odd with scenes where the acting was either over the top or out of synch with the script at that point. Both were predictable and both were definitely NOT his best work as a director.  Both had plot holes and very unrealistic scenes (like in Bloodwork; shooting up the killer's car on a public street, which then crashes into an innocent person driving by, and the good guys just drive away without even chasing the killer, or at least tending to the innocent victim in the car who may be bleeding to death?)But who knows - maybe it's the screenplays to blame and no director could have saved them.  There's no way to know what was going on at the time Clint was involved. SPOILER ALERT If you're a crime/drama movie fan, don't bother with this film.  I didn't read the book and yet my guests and I had figured out the whole film almost instantly.  (spoiler as soon as they emphasized the anonymous good samaritan helping the victim survive til the ambulance got there, you knew that it was the killer and why he'd done it just by thinking about the title of the film; BLOODwork.  Then, as soon as the kid points out there are no 1's in the code, you realized WHY they had emphasized the spelling of Buddy's last name SO much.)And, if you're a Clint fan, as I am, rent a classic like HonkyTonk Man instead.  Bloodwork will only disappoint. "},{"Title":"Clint directs again, and its all good","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While fairly predictable, this movie was well acted, well directed, and well told.  Even though drinking heavily while watching, I was entertained and intrigued.This is a good film for the who done it fans, or just Clint Eastwood fans in general.  But it is not required that you like Clint to like this movie.Watch it, you'll enjoy it.  Not the best film in its class, but not bad at all.  A very worth while experience and worth the 3-7$ rental fee. "},{"Title":"weak but entertaining","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fairly straight psycho killer doppleganger yarn from Clint.  Excessively obvious who the killer is early on.  Paul Roderigez has nice small part as homicide detective.  Angelica Huston is good in what is essentially a cameo as cardiologist.Good pacing, good production, decent scenario keep this from falling totally flat.  Oh yes, there's Clint holding up his end (which turns out to almost the entire show). "},{"Title":"unbelievably predictable","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't waste your money on this flick unless you're a really huge Eastwood fan.  Wait until you can see it for free.  The story is definitely interesting but the killer and the connections were too easy to see right from the start.  This takes a bit of the fun out of it.  On a positive side, Jeff Daniels continues to show how versatile an actor he is.  Worth a see but only for free. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood in great form!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is a master of this type of mystery suspense thriller and he is in good form for Blood Work, both as an actor and a director. It doesn't make any difference if you figure out the who dunnit part early because you'll enjoy the plot twists and characterizations either way. Giving us a main character sixty days after a heart transplant added a completely different and most enjoyable quality to this film. Blood Work is highly entertaining and I heartily recommend it. "},{"Title":"Made for television movie","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I gave it a shot because I have family who are still Eastwood fans. And I watched it. It was never boring or bad. Eastwood played a realistic aged cop role(though he looked like he really needed some blood work done himself). Yet as I continued watching both Eastwood and De Jesus filling in the missing pieces of this crime thriller, it just felt like a USA or Lifetime movie.It really could have been a television movie on Lifetime or something. It was alright though. It did fool me as to who the killer was. That was cool. But for some reason, I just liked True Crime more. "},{"Title":"better than most, because its smarter than most","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you've seen as many cop movies as I have, they become pointless. Sure, there are exceptional ones, like LA Confidential, but most end up being more like The Bone Collector, which is to say, the same old thing. Few of them try to really be mysteries, which means have real clues and require looking at situations from different angles. This movie has those things. Like every other film, it is about a detective trying to catch a killer, only this one is smart about it. Clint Eastwood is the detective, and he's a cool actor to watch, but this movie is not about acting. It is not about characters or dialogue or atmosphere or anything other than the mystery. Luckily that mystery is superb. Very Very smart twists and ways of figuring things out make this a clever little film. Much better than anything I've seen Eastwood in in a long while. It's all about the writing. "},{"Title":"Boring, Banal & Bloodless","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard to go wrong... combining an outstanding thriller writer (Connelly) with an outstanding set of actors (Eastwood & Daniels) with an outstanding director (Eastwood)....but, sadly, it all collapses.   Daniels is a poor choice for the role......Clint is, ultimately, too old for the character.....the plot twists are telegraphed....the emotional connection with any of the characters is non-existent....the love interest is unbelievable & unarticulated.   Not worth even a rental. "},{"Title":"This again?","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another one of those retired law enforcement agent is the only guy on the planet who can possibly solve this murder flicks.  Eastwood is fair in his role, at best.  The film is simply too derivative of the countless catch the wacko flicks where the good guy/main character is hated by one of the local cops for re-opening a investigation.  The guy who plays the cop, Eastwood's nemesis, is a major goon.*Spoiler*  The weakest scene (there are several) is the donut scene. Just plain bad....Overall 5/10. "},{"Title":"Should be Bad Work","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was shocked at how bad this movie was. After about 20 minutes into the film, I noted that the dialog was so cheesy and inauthentic I thought I was watching a Segal or Norris flick. I stopped the film and looked at the DVD cover again to make sure that Ebert & Roeper gave this crap two thumbs up!?!?!The film did get marginally better after that - so I sat through to the end. It didn't take too long, however, to figure out who the killer was Jeff Daniels stuck out like a sore thumb. There were some aspects of the plot that were interesting and if the project was directed better with a screenwriter who could write _believable_ dialog, this could have been quite a good film. I suspect that the book that this was based on *was* a good thriller.Personally, I can't recall having seen anything Clint has directed that was terribly good anyway. However, he *can* act and has on numerous occasions shown himself to be a fine film actor. I think he should stick with that and start playing some meaty roles that reflect the fact that yes, Clint is becoming an older man, and he can't be Dirty Harry anymore. So, evolve Clint! Take some character roles for a change and don't embarrass yourself with roles that lead you down the road of becoming a has-been, lame, geriatric action hero.  "}{"Title":"Time to retire Clint.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsClint Eastwood certainly enjoys directing and starring in his own movies.The last really great such film he made (and starred in) was Unforgiven,ten years ago in 1992.Ten years later,this sure ain't one to rival it.It's a common theory that actors don't really know how to retire.Maybe this is a serious problem they all have,and so I won't pass too much judgement.But if Clint wants to carry on acting and carry on being taken SERIOUSLY as an actor,then he'll have to adapt to roles more suited to him as a 72 year old man.A man who,in all fairness,in reality would have started drawing his pension nearly two decades ago (in America) simply cannot be taken seriously as an FBI agent who'll have to most likely engage in a lot of strenuous activity whilst in pursuit of dangerous psychopathic killers.The scene at the beginning where he suffers a near-fatal heart attack whilst chasing the central villain is laughable for more reasons than one.Whilst it's sort of funny because surely this could have been the only expected outcome,it also conjures up an hilarious image of Clint with a zimmer-frame racing along the alley,still not accepting the inevitable confines of his age.All this aside,Blood Work is simply a ponderous,ludicrous and frankly,plain boring movie.The jazzy,brisk soundtrack is at odds with the tense,claustrophobic feel of the film,robbing it of a lot of  potential thrills.The daft set-up and constant illogical plot twists only serve to hinder things further,and the ending eventually arrives leaving a lot of loose ends untied.Wanda De Jesus certainly makes for a nice fantasy piece of a$$ to oggle,but otherwise,as both actor and director,watching this nonsensical pap compared to some of his undeniably great earlier actor/director features (Unforgiven,Sudden Impact) can only suggest Clint takes a backseat and makes the most out of the no doubt millions he has made from his many years in Hollywood.....before total senility kicks in.** "},{"Title":"A good Clint Eastwood movie!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood Work is one Clint Eastwood's best movies ever! He acted great and the since with him and the shotgun was something! Jeff Daniels acted good too. Anjelica Houston looked very good and Wanda De Jesus looked stunning!If you like Clint Eastwood and cop/murder mystery films than look none other than Blood Work!   "},{"Title":"Boring, Predictable, Lame and Slow Moving","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I thought that BLOOD WORK was a bad movie. It started off withgreat potential, but the last half of the film is so boring and slowmoving that I was actually thinking of stopping it.     I love Clint Eastwood, but I think that he has just ran out of steam(those scenes when he took of his shirt made me cringe a littlebit).     The acting is good, however. Clint Eastwood and Jeff Danielsare good actor's, but they didn't play good partners. The rest of thecast isn't bad either. Probably the only actor who I wanted to seemore of was Paul Rodriguez, who's funny and great with one liners(something that was once awarded to Clint Eastwood in his pastfilms, but not his present).     The story's just so predictable as well. I new who the killer wasfrom the first half hour of the film, and I new how it was going toend. Overall though, I don't recommend this movie to anybody. Ithought it was boring, stupid and lame. They didn't even introducethe character of Buddy properly, they did it like he wasn't importantto the story. Not bad for a 72 year old actor/director, but not greateither. I'll give Clint some slack though, since it is a better moviethan SPACE COWBOYS. 5*'s/10*'s. "},{"Title":"Sorry!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was disappointed in the film because right from the beginning you knew who the killer was. They have Jeff Daniels set up to look like a nobody and Jeff is a pretty good actor and you know he wouldn't settle for a bit part! Clint is a rough and tough guy and seeing him portray someone who is sick just doesn't fit. Angelica Houston does a bad acting job in this movie. She is totally non convincing as his doctor. Actually the whole cast did not click. Rodrigues was terrible and so was his side-kick. I like Clint as a tough guy who is sharp and in charge. Just because someone is mature doesn't make them slow and useless! I have always like Clint Eastwood and still do, this just was not one of his better movies. He is capable of much better. Judy "},{"Title":"wake me when it's over.........(yawn)","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie just plodded along.  A snooze fest. Very slow and boring plot which never truly took off for me.  I was quite disappointed overall and yet I'm a great Clint Eastwood fan. Glad I didn't waste the full price at the theatre on this one however..it's passes as an average time waster video rental. I'm generous in giving it a vote of 5 really. "},{"Title":"Solid Film, but not a great one","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood atones for the atrocity  of True Crime with a thoughtful film about  an FBI agent. While one has to suspend  belief at the beginning of the film, at least  Eastwood is finally trying to show his age  in the movies. After a heart attack nearly  kills him, his crusade to find the killer of  his transplant victim is quite compelling.  The film as a whole is well paced, even  though some of the lighting sequences  look a little off. The only downside to the  film was the performances of Angelica  Huston and Paul Rodriguez. I know their  characters were meant to be static, at least  they could put a little more charm and  passion into the roles. A decent film overall  that hasn't nearly gotten the respect it deserves. "},{"Title":"3 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Terry McCaleb (Clint Eastwood) is an FBI agent. When the film opens, he is arriving on a murder scene where detectives Arrango (Paul Rodriguez) and Waller are waiting. They don't like McCaleb very much, perhaps because he seems to attract all of the media publicity away from them. And McCaleb has also gotten the attention of a serial killer, who has left a note written in blood at the murder scene.Shortly after this, there is a chase where McCaleb attempts to catch someone on foot. McCaleb has an apparent heart attack and collapses. As he loses consciousness, the camera is looking up at a police helicopter, shining a searchlight down on McCaleb. There is a marvelous cut (or was it a fade?) to an examination light, which is similar in shape and illumination to the helicopter and searchlight, in a hospital where McCaleb is waking up after a heart transplant. His doctor is Bonnie Fox , played by Anjelica Huston, who unfortunately is grossly underused in this film.After release from the hospital, McCaleb is visited by Graciella Rivers (Wanda De Jesus), whose sister was murdered in a convenience store robbery. Graciella asks McCaleb to try to track down the killer, since the police have not been making much progress. The murder also left Graciella's nephew an orphan who now lives with her.The rest of the film mostly revolves around this murder investigation, which McCaleb undertakes even though he has retired from the FBI and over his doctor's urgings to drop it. This aspect of the story is excellent, with many apparently right answers overturned as new evidence is uncovered or clues deciphered.McCaleb's uncertain health is another important part of the story. The mortality that Eastwood embodies as McCaleb is palpable and refreshingly realistic, especially when compared to the impossibly invincible action heroes of most films.The other significant characters are detective Winston (Tina Lifford), who knows McCaleb from way back, and Buddy (Jeff Daniels), who lives on the boat next to McCaleb's.The story, or at least two thirds of it, is really good. I cannot reveal the one third of the story that didn't work for me without giving away too much, but the murder mystery in particular is *very* well done. The performances are also good, although none of them stand out to me as exceptional.If a well done murder mystery seems like what you're looking for, this film is a good choice.Seen on 9/17/2002.  "},{"Title":"Requires a big stretch of the imagination","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good movie, but the plot line really requires a big stretch of the imagination.  If you're willing to make the stretch, the movie will work for you.  Good acting throughout.  Another solid performance by Clint Eastwood playing Clint Eastwood; somehow, he just keeps making it work! "},{"Title":"Go Ahead, Make My Day","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this film opening weekend at my local Gigiplex 500 I was surprised to find it was not on one of the big screens in one of the big auditoriums. Instead, all the big screens were reserved for Vin Diesel's XXX. Clint Eastwood's latest offering was only playing on one screen, down the hall, turn right, then go straight for 2 blocks, then turn left, in theatre 96. It was a good thing I got there early because the theatre ended up PACKED. Despite his 72 years of age, I am happy to report Clint Eastwood still has quite a following.In this outing Clint plays Terry McCaleb, a FBI agent who specializes in crime scenes. On the trail of a criminal known as the Code Killer, Terry is suddenly forced to retire because of a bad heart. He spends his retirement living on a boat in the Long Beach marina until he is given a transplant. As he recovers, the sister (Wanda DeJesus) of his heart's donor arrives and asks that he investigate her death. Recruiting his goofy next door neighbor (Jeff Daniels) to drive him around, while he recovers from surgery, Eastwood begins following leads the police detectives (led by obnoxious and annoying Paul Rodriguez) missed. Soon he's involved in an old fashioned game of cat and mouse, tracking the killer while falling for the lovely sister of the victim. Based on a terrific book by Michael Connelly, Bloodwork is less successful as a movie. The scenes with Angelica Huston as Clint's doctor are strictly from Screenwriting 101 classes. The big final face off seems kind of anti-climatic. When I first heard Eastwood was doing this project, I wondered if he would limit himself to directing. Gene Hackman is the actor I pictured in the role after reading the book. Never do we really believe Eastwood is tired or (God forbid) really weak. Instead we just accept the premise because Clint appears to want us to, not because he's convinced us with any acting. Yet Eastwood is still interesting to watch. It would be even more interesting if he took a note from Unforgiven and cast himself opposite a substantial heavyweight bad guy like Hackman or a younger threat like  Vin Diesel. A hero can only be as great as the threat facing him.So while I and the packed theatre audience enjoyed Blood Work I would be the first to admit it's definitely a B grade Eastwood film in the  Absolute Power vein (heh-heh. I am so clever it's frightening!)  rather than the Dirty Harry/Unforgiven group. But like John Wayne in the later years (The Train Robbers), while its not his best work, it's still Eastwood. There's a great scene where he goes after a suspect and ala Dirty Harry, shoots up half of Burbank. When he wants to leave the scene to follow up a lead, his partner (Tina Lifford) points out they can't just leave--they just shot up half the block. Clint the Squint looks at her and says So? Did we hit anybody? With a shrug, they're off again.Moments like this give me the feeling that somewhere bubbling just beneath the surface Clint really wishes he hadn't said he wouldn't do Dirty Harry again. http//go.to/senor_sock "},{"Title":"Entirely Predictable","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, I knew who-done-it and why in the first twenty minutes of this movie. Usually I enjoy being surprised and don't work very hard to figure it out and/or ruin it for myself. However, you don't have to try to know what's about to happen in this flick. I was looking forward to another Eastwood crime mystery in the league of In The Line of Fire, but it just doesn't cut it. It's not a bad movie overall, but don't expect to be shocked at the end. "}{"Title":"There'll always be one more Dirty Harry movie","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Grant me one wish - to age gracefully surrounded by doting admirers who recognize our strengths and overlook our fogeyness. Okay, this is one long wish but Clint Eastwood got it with Blood Work as did Paul Newman in The Road to Perdition, and Gene Hackman in The Heist. Would that we were all that lucky.Blood Work was inspired by the novel of the same name. If it was based on that book, the cutting room floor must have been knee-deep in celluloid. The book is a worthy read but the screenwriters took major liberties. And you'll enjoy the film as long as you don't expect a faithful retelling.Eastwood's portrays an aging FBI profiler with a rare blood type. He's got a transplanted heart from a murder victim and a gnawing guilt that is intensified when he meets the surviving son and his attractive sister. She'd still would be dead whether or not you got her heart, but his intuition tells him otherwise. The plot moves forward on his doubt.Paul Rodriguez's caricature of chronic bad cop begins as a funny routine then grates, as he won't let it go. Comics have made the transition to Hollywood gracefully. Let's blame this one on a directorial oversight even though Eastwood didn't forget to award himself a babe. Angelica Huston provides the voice of reason and threatens to refer Eastwood if he doesn't drop this investigation that's draining his energy.  Count the many times Eastwood is told You look like s--t. The police are portrayed as bumbling bureaucrats who can be had for the price of a Crispy Crèmes (nice product placement). Their shortsightedness would fail them in Criminology 101. Is this believable? C'mon Dirty Harry, you were once haunting that squad room. The smartest officials are the ones who give Eastwood wide berth to do his magic.This is a crime thriller that has the intrigue to please the mystery fan. Plot holes aside, we get a chance to solve it along side a very human investigator. He's a little slower, a bit grayer and somewhat forgetful, but he still gets us there.  "},{"Title":"A letdown for an Eastwood fan","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can see that some might admire the simplicity of this film, and it's hearkening back to an older murder/mystery style, but the acting was so atrocious, the dialogue so canned, that for me it simply didn't float. I'm a HUGE Eastwood movie fan, and some of his latest have been masterpieces The Unforgiven, and In The Line of Fire, but this is really a letdown. First of all, I knew who the murderer was within the first 15 minutes or so, it was painfully obvious. Secondly, it felt like even Eastwood himself was just reading off of cue cards. The concept of an aging man as hero was interesting, but again the dialogue and supporting characters were so plastic and banal and badly conceived that it ruined any hope for belief. Jeff Daniels had a little spark in him, at least. The ending resulted in laughter amongst most of the audience at the showing I went to, it being about as tense and suspenseful as a wet napkin. And that's another problem - I wasn't anywhere near the edge of my seat -- In fact, I was slumped back in a near sleeplike state due to the poor pacing. Now, I love a good, slow buildup, but I'm sorry, this simply was not done well and does not deserve a place amongst Eastwood's better films. A letdown, overall. "},{"Title":"Disappointing for Eastwood fans","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Poor cinematography...problems with lighting of characters and scenes. Poor acting by Hispanic 'lover'; weak script, shallow plot, with obvious solution. This film probably should never have been made. At best, see it at a matinee. "},{"Title":"Taut thriller, but.........","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood Work is a good, taut thriller, however, IMHO, the Paul Rodriquez character and scenes reminded me more of a Red Heat or 48 Hours type movie. For a movie of this genre', I expected a little less humor and just a tad more suspense. Also, (spoiler)I thought that Clint Eastwood played his character pretty well- but only in Hollywood does a 70 something guy get a hot 30 something Latina babe! All in all, a worthwhile film, though. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good Old-Fashioned Fun","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint Eastwood begins the movie as an FBI profiler investigating a series of serial killings.  At each of the crime scenes, including the house at which we open the film, the killer has left a personal note for Clint.  After reviewing the scene, Clint spots the killer outside the house and gives chase, only to have his heart give out on him at the end of a dark alley.Fast forward in time (two years, as we find out) and Clint is given a new lease on life after a heart transplant.  He is now retired from the FBI and has been working as a private investigator; he is trying to take it easy on the old ticker.However, soon after the completion of the transplant operation, the killing starts again and Clint is sucked right back in to an investigation that he wasn't able to finish the first time around.The one (extremely) annoying aspect of this film is the requisite romance between Clint (a private investigator and former FBI profiler) and his client (the sister of the woman whose heart has been transplanted into Clint).  The romance feels contrived and adds nothing to the film.Overall, Blood Work is a solid, old-fashioned thriller.  No huge explosions, no virtual reality, no computer-animated characters.  Just Clint and a nice little mystery.I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Comments from an avid movie goer","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to Blood work over the past weekend and was somewhat disappointed by the entire sequence of movie. I expected much more from an actor/director who although his movies have never been huge box office smashes have been masterful in their own right.I was impressed in the beginning with the aging FBI agent profiler played by non-other than Clint Eastwood but I was soon lost in the trials of the director's (Eastwood) attempt at adding heartache to a failing crime plot. The addition of love to the plot which I often had trouble following anyway just added insult to injury as i was taken out of the movie to realize that I was in a movie theater and not in the real life scenerio that often plays true in a great film.I was also pulled by the unbelievable love between our aging hero and the young woman who hired him. Not only that but the fact that two cops with ample bullets, time and not even 10 feet from the perpatrator could somehow miss him/her was unbelieveable.However, i was moved by the fact that half of the movie was backwards but i guess that was just the one i saw??but over all i give Eastwood credit because even though the clues to this thriller did come a bit obvious and two hasty, i do give him as much for his agility as an aging actor who just won't quit. "},{"Title":"A golden oldie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember as a kid watching Clint on TV in Rawhide, sneaking into the drive-in 5 or 6X to see TGB&U, etc., etc. It's really nice to see Clint still got his mojo after all these years. I've been to the theater 8 or 10 times this summer, & the 2 best movies I've seen stared 2 of the guys we've watched for over 30 years. The other was Pacino in Insomina (honerable mention to H.Ford in K-19). Blood Work has a improbable plot line. But it is well acted by all involved. Go see it before the great ones are all gone. "},{"Title":"Sure, this flick plays out somewhat like an episode of 'Columbo' or 'Morse' at times","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood Work -Methodically paced and almost seamlessly plotted out, this crime thriller is a rare treat for fans of this genre. As with most of Eastwood's cop movies, there's a certain stride of logic to the way his brand of anti-hero meticulously peels apart whatever case he's become obsessed with. Him focussing on each piece of evidence until the actual truth eventually emerges. It's like watching a master stonemason chip away at a block of marble until the sculpture that was always there is magically freed by his capable hands. Awesome.Terry McCaleb (Eastwood) is an F.B.I. investigator forced in to an uneasy retirement after suffering a life-threatening heart attack and subsequent transplant operation. When a recent homicide victim's sister proves that McCaleb's new heart is linked to the unsolved crime, Old Steel Eyes ignores the valid objections of his overprotective doctor and uses his wits and connections to hunt down the killer. Possibly a ruthless serial killer and his nemesis-at-large who has unexpectedly returned from the past.Sure, this flick plays out somewhat like an episode of 'Columbo' or 'Morse' at times, where you've got a pretty good idea of whodunnit before the lovably crotchety protagonist gets back on track, figures it out and (in this case) beds the gorgeous love interest and fills the bad guy with a fistful of bullets. When I grow up, I wanna be Clint Eastwood. Although, the only niggling gripe I had was that one relatively interesting question regarding a possible database security breach was never really resolved. That aside, and as with every entertainingly plotted out morality play, getting caught up in the action and the deductive reasoning used to ultimately mete out Eastwood's patented vengeful justice still gives you good reason to leave the theatre feeling completely satisfied. "},{"Title":"Oh, please...","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie hoping to see a great screen legend perform in a taught thriller.  What I got was a servicable, fairly enjoyable film.  The story was entertaining enough, but so many things were missing.  Like clever dialogue, good acting, and a solid plot.Wanda de Jesus was positively cardboard as the grieving sister, Clint mumbled most of his lines, and Paul Rodriguez was hopelessly sad as the token Hispanic detective.  I won't even mention Anjelica Huston. Hopefully her best work ended up on the cutting room floor.  The only real bright spot in the movie was Jeff Daniels, and unfortunately I saw his role in the storyline coming after the first ten seconds he was on screen.C'mon, did we really need the little romance bit at the end of the movie? It was silly, superficial, and really served nothing in the way of advancing the plot.  And the ending...  I mean, honestly, why didn't he just leave the killer to bleed to death on the wrecked ship and join Graciella on the boat? I know, I know.  Then there'd be no shoot 'em up scene, something every Dirty Harry'esque film seems to require.What was really missing from this movie was in the very beginning.  Only one scene was used to set up the relationship between Terry and the serial killer.  Would fifteen more minutes of film really have killed the budget? At least I would have understood why the killer went to all that trouble just to keep Terry alive.  I could have done without that little kissy-kissy business in order to strengthen the motivation of the killer, and Terry's determination to risk everything to catch him.And the problems with geography of the setting...  Let's just say that a taxi ride from Long Beach to Lancaster would cost a fortune, not to mention that the corner of Burbank and N. Hollywood is nowhere near Canoga Park. The list goes on and on.C'mon Clint.  I've admired you since I was a little kid.  I watched every Dirty Harry movie, and your thriller Tightrope is still one of my favorites and stands up to scrutiny to this day.  I can forgive you for that orangutan business in the 70's, but please, please, please take a little more care with your next film.  Otherwise, I may be forced to rely on my Clint Eastwood DVD collection instead of buying a ticket for your next movie. I'd rather just wait for cable.5/10 "},{"Title":"Blood Work (2002)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A run of the mill procedural cop/serial killer movie. The low rating is because of how low on surprises this was. Honestly, it was ridiculously easy to solve. If I'm watching a film about an FBI profiler I shouldn't be 1 hour ahead of him. I worked out the plan, the motive, and the killer within the first 45 minutes. It was annoying watching Clint being so dim and behind the times. It wasn't even represented as him being too old anymore, he was supposed to be one of the best. I guess profiling has come along way in 9 years, or maybe I've just seen too many episodes of Criminal Minds. The lines are cheesy, with Paul Rodriguez giving an awful performance of your run of the mill antagonist cop. Wanda De Jesus was simply selfish in asking for Eastwood's help, and there's even a scene where a child is ahead of Eastwood in the investigation. I'm very surprised that Eastwood directed this, as it was so plain. I hear they changed details from the books, which is no big deal, but they even changed the identity of the killer. Probably why it was so obvious, as no thought had been put into the reveal. "}{"Title":"A Lot of Heart and Little Soul","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hidden in the apocrypha of Clint Eastwood's directorial efforts lies this pulpy detective story set in the underbelly of Los Angeles. Former FBI agent Terry McCaleb was hot on the heels of a sadistic serial killer before suffering a fatal heart attack. Years later, he is lucky to be alive having just survived a successful heart transplant. About to enjoy retirement, Terry is brought back into the game for one last job, to solve the murder of the woman whose heart he has in his chest.While the script is topnotch, Blood Work is stained by some very serious flaws. Not the least of which is Eastwood himself who despite an undeniable presence simply isn't a formative actor; certainly not limber enough to handle elongated moments of exposition. His stunted performance sabotages the otherwise solid performances of Anjelica Huston, Jeff Daniels and Tina Lifford. He's a man of action, not a man of platitudes.To say the film was boring would be an understatement. Now I'm not saying the story could have used some car chases or attractive women in bikinis. It's actually a nice change to have a boilerplate detective story that isn't afraid to show the diligence, but their seems to be a total lack of atmosphere that chokes out any of the script's cleverness. As a result the film resembles a TV movie more than it does a feature length film.Still the film does have its moments of suspense and mystery not to mention some good ol' fashioned sleuthing. Not to give anything away but the film does throw in a few curve balls which are labyrinthine without being convoluted. I recommend the film if for no other reason than to see how Eastwood as a director has evolved.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Blood Work Nothing New","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Much as was the case with Eastwood's prior directorial credit Space Cowboys, I had long avoided Blood Work despite being a huge fan of that decade of Clint. I can't even explain why really, it was simply a hunch, a suspicion that somewhere along the line something would go wrong.An FBI profiler forced to retire after suffering a heart attack in pursuit of a serial killer, Terry McCaleb is pulled back into his former life when it is revealed that the woman whose heart he received via transplant was murdered by the very same serial killer in order to keep him alive and in the game.Okay, so maybe a large part of my fear of this film falling short of the Eastwood high water mark lay in the synopsis above, a synopsis which is worrying at best. The screen has seen its fair share of serial killer thrillers and then some, the amount of times we've seen a profiler/detective personally taunted and egged on by his quarry making the genre bloated, tired, and altogether too unoriginal. It would take something incredibly special to lift a film from the depths of mediocrity which form so dangerous a pitfall for this narrative formula. Drucilla Cornell, in her wonderful book Clint Eastwood and Issues of American Masculinity, suggests that indeed Blood Work does have this special something, citing the recurrent theme of having a woman's heart as the introduction of a deeper exploration of masculinity and femininity to the film. Any fan of Eastwood would do well to encounter this text, incidentally, its ideas fascinating and perspective-broadening. Whilst I understand Cornell's approach, and wholly appreciate and commend it, I myself am not satisfied that the exploration of this idea goes deep enough to escape the ultimate problem that is the film's routine ticking-off of the genre conventions. McCaleb disobeys authority, goes renegade, finds an unusual sidekick, discovers evidence hidden in plain sight, involves himself in a dangerous romance, and discovers that all along, what he was looking for was closer than he thought. The oft repeated assertion that McCaleb will be guided by the heart of Gloria is, whilst an interesting idea that does seem to indicate toward a question of gender roles, insufficient to overcome the plodding dullness of the film's adherence to a standard formula. I appreciate the effort, but it's not even nearly enough. There is nothing new to be found in this movie, nothing that does anything for the genre, nothing to commit it in any way to memory, nothing to make watching it worthwhile.Though it tries something new with the tired old genre, Blood Work conforms too lazily with the standard narrative progression of the serial killer thriller to manage to be particularly noteworthy. Unoriginal, and thereby uninteresting, it is a poor offering from a director who has so much more to give than this. "},{"Title":"Good, solid Hollywood...","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I tend to agree more with Roger Ebert on this one rather than with Berardinelli who I think exaggerates a little in his criticism of this motion picture.Yes, the movie does have some cliché's that could have been avoided, but all in all it is a well crafted police thriller. I can imagine that the book must have been very good, very intelligently written. The plot is interesting, the ending original, the camera and sound good. Nothing especially stands out in this film, nothing is exceptional, but everything has been done well in the best of the (positive) Hollywood tradition. Movie making craftsmanship pure and simple, like it used to be!All in all, above average. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Stick to your ageing portentousness, Clint!","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A police thriller with Clint Eastwood - that should be good for a couple of hours. Unfortunately not. Okay, it gets by, but it is a very poor effort from an ageing actor, and a dreadfully prosaic dawdle by a director (Clint again) who has been vastly overpraised these past few years for over the top portentous 'issue' movies that the Film Academy adore. So perhaps he should stick to what the liberal caucus in Hollywood like! It is a police procedural that is fairly flat with a serial killer (deduced easily by being the last star standing!) who only exists in popular novels and Hollywood films - he keeps leaving clues in code, ooh dear! And he is able to easily find and kill a huge Russian suspect, and lug him in full view of a freeway to a chosen spot! You see what I mean, the holes get larger, while Clint rubs his chest after a heart transplant (yes, after heart surgery you do that a lot early on!) and also gets the girl. The killer manages to avoid at least twenty to thirty bullets (except one) to keep the suspense going, and the blood falling on the pane of glass at the end - really, Clint, very unworthy of you. 'Kelly's heroes' had been on TV earlier - um, Clint in his prime, limited but dominated the screen. Ah well, back to nostalgia rather than watching the old make poor imitations. "},{"Title":"Connected!","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILER ALERT** After suffering a near fatal heart-attack chasing this murderous psycho known as the Code Killer FBI agent and serial killer profiler Terry McCaleb, Clint Eastwood,ended up on the waiting list to receive a new heart. Terry eventually got one, two years later, just as he was about to expire as his old and damaged one was about to pump it's last paint of blood.Retired and living on his boat at the L.A Marina Terry is now resigned to spend his golden years just shooting the breeze and taking it easy not being able to do anything more strenuous then driving a car going out fishing or even walking up a flight of stairs. This laid back lifestyle all comes to a crashing end for Terry when he meets Graciella Rivers, Wanda De Jeus, who came to see him on his boat one hazy lazy summer afternoon. Graciella's sister Gloria Glory Torres was the victim of a hold-up murder at a local grocery store and it's Grory's young and healthy heart that's now pumping life into Terry's body!It turns out that the murdered Glory had the same rare blood-type, AB-CMV negative,that Terry has and was killed the day that he received her heart, in an open-heart operation, that saved his life. Terry now more then ever interested in solving Glory's murder is caught up with the red tape at the local police station who's top homicide detective Sgt. Ranoldo Arrango, Paul Rodriguez, is anything but eager to re-open the case. Terry begins to notice a connection between the dead Grory and that of a previous murder victim in the neighborhood James Cordell, Mark Thompson, who like Glory was caught being killed on a surveillance tape, their killer seems to be the same person. The mystery of the two killings really gets eerie when it's also found out by a very resourceful Terry that they Glory & Cardell,like himself, had the same rare blood-type AB-CMV negative!The movie Blood Work has the heart transplanted and heavily medicated Terry having to be baby sat and looked after by his marina neighbor Jasper Buddy Noonan, Jeff Daniels, who acts as Terry's driver and all around gofer. Terry's disability makes the once formidable Clint Eastwood, playing Terry McCaleb, look like a nursing home patient who needs help to not only cross the street but also to change his clothes. It's that very fact that makes the movie so interesting and watchable in that Clint, like everyone else, is for once shown to be only human.It later comes out that it was none other then Terry's old nemesis The Code Killer, who was thought to have been shot and killed, who murdered both Glory and Cardell in order to give the sick and near death Terry a Valentine present a new heart so that he, the Code Killer, and Terry can continue their adventures as cop and serial killer that more then anything else in the world turns the psycho killer on.It takes a while for Terry to make the connection but with the help of Glory's smart ten year old son Raymond, Mason Lucero, he realizes just what the clue that the cryptic Code Killer leaves in all his murders means and it's that what leads Terry straight to him. Heart thumping final with a very sick Terry over exerting himself and not having time to take his very argent heart medication, prescribed by his though and drill sergeant like cardiologist Dr. Fox (Anjelica Huston), having it out with the killer in an abandoned ship out in the middle of L.A Bay.Having taken both Garciella and young Raymond hostage, and locked up in the ships hull, the killer shoots it out with Terry who despite his handicap puts him away for good, with a bullet to his head only after foolishly letting him grab his submachine gun as if Terry wanted to make the final confrontation with the Code killer a equal match-up.Clint Eastwood really looked and acted his age, at 72, and it was fascinating to see him get knocked around by thugs like two-time loser and murder suspect Boltovo, Igor Jijikine, whom in his Dirty Harry days he would have easily taken care of with one hand tied behind his back. Eastwood realized that he's no longer the toughest and meanest cop around and did a good job directing himself in the movie which made it all that watchable and at the same time excitingly entertaining. "},{"Title":"A lot better than expected","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie turned out to be better than I expected! It turned out to be a fairly interesting film. Clint Eastwood (who directed this film and is the leading actor) does a good job. Sometimes there is too much that Clint Eastwood-police officer atmosphere, but generally speaking it's a good film. The story is quite good, but will maybe be predictable for some people. Despite that fact, the film stays interesting until the end. Every now and then there is also a funny scene. There are some holes in the plot, but if you try not to notice the plot holes, you will enjoy this film. It's absolutely no masterpiece, but fairly good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Average Eastwood","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clint Eastwood usually makes two kinds of movies the good ones, and the superb ones. Blood work is a good one a detective story in a classic style, well constructed and with a serial-killer involved. Maybe in the end the movie gets a little bit boring, it's been unnecessarily prolonged with some action sequences that have no interest.As usual, Clint plays the main character that cynical old man who has seen it all before. OK, he's not the best actor ever, he's not as good as Pacino or Michael Caine, Clint Eastwood always plays Clint Eastwood (if you know what I mean), but let me tell you he's the best playing Clint Eastwood!! A movie from him is always a safe bet. So, when you don't know what to choose, just choose Eastwood.*My rate 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"will make the even the dumbest person feel smart","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After suffering a heart attach while chasing a murder suspect, Terry McCaleb (Eastwood) is hired by miss Rivers to look into the death of her sister. He think it may be linked to his prior case. Call me old fashion, but I'd like to think that mystery films should have an element of, I don't know... MYSTERY!! This film is very formulaic, very easy to solve in record time as well. The acting performances are all good, but with the talent involved you expect as much. Clint Eastwood has done SO MUCH better, both earlier, as well as later in his career.My Grade D DVD Extras 18 minute Making of; 14 minute Spanish interview with Eastwood, Wande De Jesus & Paul Rodriguez; Cast & Crew filmographies; Teaser & Theatrical Trailers "},{"Title":"Blood Simple more like.","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are dumbed down films and there are just plain dumb films which this really shouldn't have been, especially with Clint Eastwood on board. The fundamental problem is that you twig the twist way too early and then your left with 40 minutes of dead movie to wade through until the mystery serial killer is unearthed, and by then you don't care anyway.If we are honest Mr Eastwod is too old to be in front of the camera in action dramas like this and I thought his decision to be a world class director would have swayed him from not running around with a shotgun and beautiful young women. That barrel chest is wheezing a lot more these days and I just don't think 35 year old smouldering Latinas would fall at his feet anymore. PLOTEastwood is retired F.B.I man 'Terry Macaleb', now living on a boat in Long Beach, California doing a bit of serious fishing and relaxing as his crime busting days as the number one profiler in the Bureau have long since gone. The main reason he's called it a day was because the serial killer known as the 'Codekiller', the man Eastwood couldn't catch, made him have a heart attack when he was chasing the hooded man down an alley, so serious attack that he had to have a transplant.The beautiful sister (Wanda de Jesus) of a dead girl, gunned down at a cash machine, has approached Eastwood to come out of retirement as a freelance and track down the killer, the clincher being that he owes her a debt because the deceased sister was the person who posthumously donated the heart so Macaleb could live.Macalebs doctor in the seriously underused Angelica Houston is not best impressed with his need to get back in the game, although fairplay to Terry as he's not just doing it to get in the smouldering Mexicans girls pants. Any over exertion of any kind could kill Clint while his new heart is still taking to the claret which is hard to find because of his rare blood group.Eastwood uses his old Police and F.B.I buddies to start digging deep into the case and he quickly finds out he hasn't lost his touch. But he can't do it on his own and hires a driver and back up man in the out of place Jeff Daniels who's staying on the boat next door on the jetty, a kind of comedy detective sidekick if you will.Macaleb is quickly on the trail of the killer and soon makes connections to other unexplained robberies, which lead to some startling conclusions, but has he the heart for it this time(excuse the pun), although by now he's the last to know as the audience has already put the kettle on and gone for a snack in the comfort cupboard as the plot has come undone like Clint's corset.THE RESULTIt's a shame this script has been messed around so much because the screenplay was done by the guy who did L.A Confidential. I'm afraid American audiences are far dumber than Europeans (hence Bush' re-election) and need big clues and red herrings spelt out for them.The gravel voice is still there but the physical Eastwood,like in his last action film 'Under Suspicion' looks rather sad running around in that corset with on set respirator and you just wana tell the big man to call it a day. But he's a macho man of screen and the staunch member of the 'National Rifle Association', when asked what he thought of Michael Moore's excellent 'Fahrenheight 911'in a recent press conference for 'Billion Dollar Baby', he announced that he was going to kill Michael Moore - for real -if he tried coming anywhere near his house, obviously in relation to Bowling for Columbine and the N.R.A's other celebrated he man in Charlton Heston being shown up. There's one or two interesting ideas here and now doubt a good movie on the cutting room floor. I quite like the idea of a body turning up on the state line and there being a kind of jurisdiction conflict where the detectives argue over the case. In the end though this is a bit remedial and insults your intelligence as it tries to borrow too much from the excellent '21 Grams' and the equally silly' Return to Me'. What we have here is a guy that needs to be told to hang up the gun belt, take appropriate roles, its On Golden Pond Time.DVD EXTRASThe obligatory 'Making Off' tells you all about the film you have just seen with appropriate clips and a chance for the lesser actors like Jesus to pitch for work. A short on the cast and crew gives Paul Rodriguez, the eternal Mexican side kick in every movie going, also a chance to grovel for more serious roles.'A Conversation in Spanish' sees the actor's talking heads in Spanish with English subtitles with in keeping with the films Mexican cross over themes. Trailers and stills complete the pointless ad-on's. "},{"Title":"too predictable","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is so predictable it hurts.You'll get it in the first 15-20 minutes or so, and then wait for about an hour for the characters to figure it out.And it's the kind of movie in which the story is what matters most; Clint Eastwood tries to make it more significant by adding things that most thrillers don't deal with, but the fact is the movie handles the mystery part (the story) so badly that it almost doesn't count at all what else he does. I gave it a 4.p.s. Perhaps it deserves more than 4...i don't know... p.p.s. OK, i really don't like writing , so i'm just filling in the required space... "}{"Title":"Not Clint at his best, but devotees of his work will enjoy.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood work reminds me a lot of the police thrillers you'd find in the 80's. Not much story, not much character study and not much else. Which is probably why they stopped making them. This film has Clint as an FBI profiler on the hunt of a serial killer. While chasing him, Clint has a heart attack and the killer gets away. We next see Clint two years later after having a heart transplant. Over the nest few days he gets involved with catching the killer of the woman that donated her heart to Clint and there are clues that connect this killer to Clint's serial killer.It's hard to believe Clint made this a year before he gave us the far superior Mystic River, but you've got to have the chaff if you want the wheat.  "},{"Title":"Forget It!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is quite possibly Clint Eastwood's last film if he keeps going in this way.  No movie studio will back him again after this and he probably only has enough money to support one or two more film of this kind.I think I picked the killer about 1/3 of the way through simply because of the casting involved.  The dialogue is pathetically unstimulating and the musical score non-existent. The actors are fine but the plot and smaller parts of the movie make it not unwatchable but just totally boring.  Dont waste your money - re-hire The Usual Suspects if you want a thriller or Heat if you want action and do yourself a favour by talking to your kids instead of wathcing this garbage. I am quite a sweet voter who is rating this before having seen the finale so I give it a four. If it gets better I will be right - if it stays the same it will score a three. Like i said I am easily entertained and Predator even scores a nine on my list so watch something else.  OK!!!!  "},{"Title":"WORTH SEEING","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I read the critics in the medias and on IMDb I expected an average movie. This one was better than I thought and it´s not that bad as many people said here. There is from the first minute to the last one suspense. It´s a fast paced thriller where the audience is involved finding the murder till the surprisingly end. The story is well explained but you have to pay attention to the details of the crime. The picture is very fine and the film well produced. I have only one critic to Clint Eastwood your voice is not the best one but your direction is superb. My vote 7/10.I find Bloodwork is better than Absolute Power that was too long and at times slow paced. I am very curious for Eastwood's  next Mystic River which is perhaps his best movie as director. "},{"Title":"The plot of the movie was too obvious","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I figured out the plot in the first 10 minutes. When that happens I tend to tune out.It was an interesting premise and I'm sure the book was better. I would pass on this. I can't figure out why people scored this movie so highly. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable Clint Eastwood films I've ever seen.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie kept my attention from beginning to end.  I thought the acting and plot were great throughout the movie.  The ending was excellent.  Most of the movie is serious, but there was just the right amount of humor.  I thought this was one of Clint's best acting performances, and while his age is appropriate for the plot, his presense was youthful.  I rated this a 9, I think a non-Eastwood fan would rate this a 7.5 - 9, but a true Eastwood fan would easily rate this a 10.  I highly recommend you see this movie. "},{"Title":"Poor Offering","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a big fan of Clint Eastwood, I couldn't help but feel disappointed with this latest offering.Okay, I know Clint's not getting any younger but this movie seriously lacks script and action!Clint plays a retired FBI Agent who has had heart surgery, he gets involved in a murder that may be linked to a case he worked on some years previously.The whole movie sees Clint's character holding his chest as though he were about to have a heart attack and die, by the end of the movie it may have been more exciting if he had.Now why couldn't Clint be Dirty Harry coming out of retirement, just a few blasts of the 44 Magnum would have done the job, this movie is boring. "},{"Title":"Go see it","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all I am an avid Clint Eastwood fan and there is not many of his movies that I don't like. I liked Blood work because it has a very interesting twist to it. I would recommend it highly it keep me interested all the way through. "},{"Title":"Poor Michael Connelly","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I came to this film as a fan of Michael Connelly.  What a mistake.  For those of you saying the reader should be happy about this film, think again. Why use a novel if you are not going to use the novel.  I'll think twice before I take the chance to see a film based on a novel again.Isn't it time for Clint to hang up the magnum and actually retire? "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood still has reasons to feel lucky","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" During the late 1990s, it seemed like Clint Eastwood's movies started getting silly (Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil didn't follow the book, while I easily predicted the end of True Crime). So it was refreshing to see his work improve in the 21st century Space Cowboys, Blood Work, Mystic River, Million Dollar Baby and Letters from Iwo Jima.In Blood Work, Eastwood casts himself as an elderly detective in search of a killer. But when a heart attack forces him off of the case and his transplant opens a new window into the case, he rejoins the investigation and gets the shock of a lifetime.I would say that this one is probably the least significant of Clint Eastwood's movies from the past few years, especially given the movies that he released after this. Like Space Cowboys, it seems like the sort of movie that he made to pass time. But I like how he keeps everything very questionable throughout most of the movie and then catches you. There are some clues throughout the flick (but I won't tell you what they are). A pretty good effort. Also starring Anjelica Huston and Jeff Daniels. "},{"Title":"Far better than most seem to think.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie with no expectations & no prior knowledge of it. Blood Work turned out to be one of the most entertaining & involving movies I've seen in a long while. I consider that most movies coming out of American main stream cinema virtually unwatchable, this one was a pleasant surprise. (I've not read the book so I don't much care whether they changed it!). "}{"Title":"You'd be Heartless not to enjoy this - see what I did there??!? Oh well","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a Clint Eastwood fan I looked  forward to watching  this film, and I enjoyed  it immensely, though I got  who the killer was about 1/2  way through. Good  performances all round. Jeff  Daniels gives the best slacker performance  since De Niro in Jackie Brown. Seek out. "},{"Title":"Anemic Harry.","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If DIRTY HARRY was a heart transplant patient.In BLOOD WORK, Clint Eastwood is FBI detective Terry McCaleb, who suffers a heart attack chasing down a thief. Forced to retire after a heart transplant operation, he is approached by the transplant donor's sister, Graciella (Wanda De Jesús) who tells him his donor was a murder victim. She wants him to find the murderer. Feeling guilty about his second chance through someone else's murder, McCaleb accepts. Graciella taking her Mexican panties down helps the decision.Good setup, good story, with Eastwood reliably sturdy as actor and director, but let down by - ahem - half-hearted performances around him. A friend of mine suggested this was a closer to Clint's Dirty Harry period, but other than Clint pulling a few steel-eyed glares and wielding a gun in that way we're all used to, it's an anemic stab at vigilante retribution.Eastwood played John Huston in WHITE HUNTER BLACK HEART (1990). Here he plays against Huston's actual daughter, Angelica, as his cardiologist who keeps shouting at him to take it easy.Jeff Daniels is layabout Buddy No one, who unofficially aids Clint's tracking, gradually becoming progressively unbearably cheesy.Paul Rodriguez is a sour Mexican detective, attempting a cholo version of Dirty Harry. Maybe Dirty Sanchez? And Dylan Walsh is Rodriguez's pale-blooded detective partner, still wondering why he did CONGO. "},{"Title":"Eastwood shows little ambition beyond making a routine thriller","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Terry McCaleb is a retired FBI profiler who has recently been the recipient of a heart transplant. He is approached by a woman named Graciela Rivers who asks him to investigate the murder of her sister Gloria. Terry says that he is retired, but agrees to help when Graciela tells him that he shares a special bond with Gloria; she was the donor of the heart which is keeping him alive. Gloria was shot dead during a convenience store hold up, and the police know that the killer was also responsible for the murder of a man at a cashpoint. They therefore conclude that the motive for both crimes was robbery. Terry, however, is not so sure. He discovers that both victims shared the same unusual blood type- which also, of course, happens to be his own. This fact will prove to be of great importance to the plot- hence the title.This is a film of two halves. The first half seems very promising, an intriguing murder mystery with plenty of tension. Unlike some of his contemporaries who seem determined to go on making in their sixties the same sort of films as they were making in their thirties, Clint Eastwood has not tried to deny that he is not so young as he used to be. Since at least Unforgiven in the early nineties, most of his films have included an older man's part specially written for him, this allowing him to turn his advancing years to his advantage. (True Crime, in which he insisted on taking a role seemingly written for a man at least two decades younger, is perhaps an exception).Terry is not only elderly, but also physically frail. Although he is strongly advised by his doctor not to take on the investigation he does so, motivated partly by his belief in justice, partly by his sense of guilt that a young woman's death has given him a second chance of life. For much of the film Eastwood's characterisation of the role is excellent.Then, unfortunately, the film starts going downhill. Terry is transformed from an ailing pensioner playing detective into Dirty Harry. The last official Harry Callahan film, The Dead Pool, was made in 1988, but Blood Work can be seen as a belated unofficial entry in the series. I did not mind the fact that Terry is portrayed as having some as Harry's mental characteristics; like Harry he is outwardly cantankerous but inwardly determined to see justice done. (He also shares these characteristics with Walt Kowalski, the protagonist of Eastwood's most recent film Gran Torino.) What I minded is that Terry also shares Harry's physical characteristics; he may be an old man who has recently undergone major surgery, but he can run, fight and shoot as well as any young action hero. And any action hero worth his salt needs to be a stud as well, so in one tasteless scene Terry ends up in bed with Graciela, easily young enough to be his daughter. (Wanda de Jesus was 42 at the time, compared with Eastwood's 72).There is a similar love scene between Eastwood and a younger woman in True Crime. Perhaps after Blood Work he realised that this sort of thing was no longer appropriate to a man of his age; in his next film, Million Dollar Baby there is a strong emotional bond between his character Frank and Hilary Swank's Maggie, but their relationship remains platonic, more akin to a father-daughter relationship.The film's denouement is heavily dependent upon a predictable and hackneyed plot twist and that old cliché about the would-be intellectual criminal who commits murders so that he can play mind-games with a particular detective with whom he has an obsession. Million Dollar Baby has its faults, but at least it bears witness to Eastwood's ambition to make something original, an ambition he brilliantly realised with Gran Torino, which must stand as one of his greatest achievements. Blood Work and True Crime, by comparison, show little ambition beyond that of making a routine thriller. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fine for what it is... namely the same as countless other catch the killer flicks","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me start by saying that I haven't read the novel. Eastwood's been cast as and playing the too old and worn out to do what he needs to, or supposed to be for years, so that's no surprise. Clint's done better both directing and acting, before and since this, so nothing particularly new there, either. This does have that fast-talking weird guy from Jake in Progress, which might help set it apart from the rest. The plot isn't bad, and the mystery is OK(though near the end, once you get one specific hint, you're likely to figure it out before the lead does, and I'm not sure that was the intent). The pacing is fine, the film doesn't lose you before it's over. The acting is sufficient, and both Daniels and the director/star do good(the latter doing his gruff exterior typical thing, anyone looking/hoping for such, just as yours truly, should be pleased). There is some violence, and also language, and children should probably not watch this. There is a more or less insignificant amount of action, and it is reasonably well-done. There is tension in this, if there could be more. Editing and cinematography are average(and one brief part not only goes on for far too long, but is also pretty lazily done, not to mention the reek of someone who just figured out how to apply simple effects in editing). I recommend this to fans of those involved in making it, as well as of the kind of movie it is. 7/10 "},{"Title":"fair to decent crime story (maybe a spoiler )","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As pretty typical Clint Eastwood fare this crime/mystery story was fair. The neat hook is that Clint plays a retired FBI man who is recovering from a heart transplant. A woman appears on his boat (which he is living on) and asks him to investigate her sister's murder. After a short debate he takes on the case pro bono because the murdered woman's heart is now his heart. After a few twists and turns and a slight surprise ending, the murders are resolved and the criminal is dealt with. All in all a relatively satisfying diversion for an evenings entertainment. However something bothered me about the ending, so I went back and reread the book. The book and the movie do not agree and if you have ever read Mr. Connelly you would realize that his books are rarely simple and neat but rather are intriguing, thoughtful and complete with some neat hooks and twists throughout the story line. Furthermore there are some other plot problems that arose once I reread the book that would have added to the overall movie's depth and would have made it more than your typical crime drama. But I guess it is what it is An acceptable diversion. (But the book was better.) "},{"Title":"Excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and guessing to the very end","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though I haven't read the book, if you ask me, BLOOD WORK is an excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and guessing to the very end. There was only one person who kind of gave me the creeps. You'll find out who once you've read the book and seen this movie. In my opinion, the performances were top-grade, the direction was superior, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the cast was perfectly chosen. Also, the soundtrak is really good, too. Before I wrap this up, I must warn you that this movie is somewhat violent if you're going to see it, so viewer discretion is advised. Now, in conclusion, if you like Clint Eastwood films or enjoyed Michael Connelly's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. It's sure to keep you guessing from start to finish. "},{"Title":"How to chase a bad guy and not get a hear attack?","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film casts us back to the old days when Clint Eastwood was playing police detectives in that unique way that became his trade mark. All this is not enough of a challenge for an actor/director he is today so he throws in a twist this detective had a recent heart transplant and now sets out to find a killer of his heart donor.As the story unfolds a whole array of questions will arise regarding the modern day society and it is interesting to see how these are weaved into the fabric of the story. For instance what do you owe to the organ donor that saved your life while at the same time loosing his? Would you die to prove your gratitude? Or should you even feel gratitude? And in the end should you be grateful to your donor or the hit-and-run driver that killed him? I enjoyed seeing old Clint Eastwood, the crime-story is excellent, philosophical aspect of the film is very intriguing, the whole cast is great and apart form C.E. you'll see Wanda De Jesus and Anjelica Huston and i personally liked it very much and gave it 9 out of 10 points. "},{"Title":"not one of the best thrillers made in 2002 but probably the quietest one!","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Without following the fashions of the moment, without caring to know if his movie will ride high in the box-office and at the age of 72, Clint Eastwood, one of the giants of the American cinema doesn't really intend to retire as Blood Work (2002) testifies. Unlike a lot of energetic and terse detective movies of these last years, the detective acted by Eastwood opted for patience and coolness which are his main characteristics to lead his investigation, he takes all his time. So, the movie adopts a slow and nonchalant rhythm. Moreover, Eastwood didn't put much violence in his work or it is mainly showed through a TV screen (the murders).If we look into the contents of the film, we realize that we have a classic detective movie in front of us. True. Brian Helgeland, the scriptwriter has written a largely jerry-built screenplay which contain the usual components of a thriller. Some of them have a highly overrated reputation. Then, the predictable sudden new developments combine with a telegraphed conclusion and the fight or shooting sequences lack dynamism. Let's also regret a convenient low-key loving affair between Eastwood and Wanda de Jesus. So boredom could settle in the spectator's mind. But fortunately, Clint Eastwood shows once again his expertise as a director and his qualities as an actor and it is sufficient enough to forget the weaknesses of the film. Moreover, by acting a perspicacious but vulnerable FBI agent who wants to solve the mystery around a series of murders while knowing his life is hanging by a thread due to his frail health, he harms his image of hard nut to crack he gave himself in Dirty Harry (1971). In a way, Eastwood is still a brave actor who isn't afraid to take chances in spite of his elder age and he also brings a big human dimension to his character of aging cop.If we take a look in the cast, it's a surprise to discover Jeff Daniels casting against type. What Robin Williams tried to be in Insomnia (2002) by Christopher Nolan, Daniels made it to convince us that he can easily act the character of a killer.It doesn't revolutionize the thriller, it isn't to rank among Eastwood's very finest movies but Blood Work is the film from a man who like Terry McCaleb refuses to see death catching him and who in spite of his age goes on with taking pleasure in making even unoriginal films. Maybe he's right because Mystic River (2003) met critical acclaim and made a solid commercial career. I haven't watched it yet but I can't wait to discover it. "},{"Title":"booooooring","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  yes, JUST as expected this movie to be like, plodding along with predictabilty, Clint should definatly stop, this was like a tv movie, dull, with the so called twist less twisty than a very straight thing, dont bother with this movie unless you REALLY love clint, as its crap ! "},{"Title":"Bloody good","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to release movies like these nowadays, and expect great box office receipts.  Am I bashing this film?  Far from it.  I'm simply saying that many audiences just aren't in the mood for a good old-fashioned mystery.  They prefer braindead actioners like Fast and the Furious and XXX.  I, on the other hand, appreciate a solid mystery-thriller that compliments my intelligence, instead of insulting it.  Blood Work didn't get me bored for one minute.  Like the character of McCaleb I was constantly wrapped up in this investigation, dedicated to uncovering the identity of this killer, and the plot twist really blew me away.  This is one of the few times I've watched a film a second time, after knowing its twists and turns, and it was a great experience.  This time I kept looking for evidence pointing to why this person turned out to be the killer, and it made quite a bit of sense to me.  I was just as wrapped up in the film as I was when I first watched it.  I've been fascinated by forensic detective work, which this movie has a lot of.  So that's one of the reasons I loved it so much.  I'm always intrigued to see these investigators pick up on the most minute pieces of evidence that the average person would take for granted, and use them as keys in cracking the case.  **********SPOILER AHEAD*********One element of plot I felt was too far-fetched was the kid pointing out a key piece of evidence.  The killer left a code, which was a set of nine numbers.  Every single number was featured, except for the number 1.  Sure, that doesn't sound too complicated to figure out, but the average person would probably overlook that tiny detail.  But having the kid point out there was no 1 is a contrived idea, simply put in to surprise the audience by having them think, Wow, this little kid cracked the code.  Impressive.**********END OF SPOILER**********In the comic relief department, we have Paul Rodriguez and Jeff Daniels.  Both actors helped temper the film's dark tone.  I definitely recommend Blood Work to anyone in the mood for a good film with a good plot.  Yes, a good plot--that's something you don't hear everyday.  My score  8 (out of 10)       "}{"Title":"Not classic, but well done","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I liked about this movie Eastwood and all his surrounding characters are all 'real'(istic).  There's no showy Pick up the gun..., Garciella is a woman stuck in a bad situation and Eastwood's entire life history isn't picked apart for the benefit of one final kill.Eastwood plays his character very well; a guy recently out of a heart transplant and very much in his later years, who you can feel for and really don't want him to push it too much.  He probably didn't find this part too taxing, frankly, but excellent actors don't need to push their limits to make us believe them.The plots links work reasonably well - the clues in the crime don't appear to lead anywhere helpful and there's no real major revelations.  Again, it comes across as believable.Parts where it approaches unbelievable are kept well-balanced; the follow-up from the 'intimate scene' is good because too many films have done it the other way (you'll see what I mean).It's a good story, well told, for (as one reviewer said here) the adult audience, and well directed.What I didn't like The 'intimate scene' between Eastwood and the woman (won't tell you who).  A little cringe-worthy and just beyond believable because you're pretty much expecting it - every hollywood movie has it.  But they kept it to a minimum.I (being a pessimistic movie-goer) was expecting the killer to be who he/she/it/they was from around half-way.  Before that and anyone who says they know who did it is purely speculating, there is nothing approaching concrete to substantiate it.  Though it was kind of good to realise it early.I think they could have traded the Russian character (being somewhat superfluous, IMHO) with some time showing that it should be harder for an ex-agent to get at sensitive files, but I understand the decision because it may have got simply tiring.All in all, a good movie if you want a bit of Eastwood and tension and maybe you're feeling old today. "},{"Title":"Classic, classic Eastwood","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood work is classic Eastwood in every way. Terry McCaleb is classic Eastwood detective. The steady, cold, low toned voice, is classic Eastwood western. Lastly, the quick and sudden twists and turns of the plot is classic Eastwood directing. This is, without a doubt, a first class thriller murder mystery. Make it the a main feature on your movie list.Clint Eastwood has become one of Hollywood's entertainment assets. But, aye, there's the rub. Clint Eastwood knows his canvas, he knows his brushes and he has the subject complete and certain in his mind. He has mastered light and shadow and that's what captivates an audience. What he's missing, though, is the way to bring the concept to canvas.When he finds the medium, in particular, extracting from the performer  the precise character he has captured in his minds eye, Clint Eastwood will make that transition that so few cinema artist make. The transition from creating modern entertainment to that of creating modern art.This mix of performer plus character was achieved, once before, in the western, Unforgiven. Until then, there is no doubt the viewing public will see more top notch thrillers, such as Blood Work.  "},{"Title":"Classic Eastwood","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clint's latest effort is in the same tradition as True Crime and Absolute Power, in that this badass may be a little older, but he still knows how to get the job done when it comes to delivering a good solid thriller.  As always, his Directing shines and the story focuses on an aging detective, fresh out of the hospital from a heart transplant.  Since this is a mystery, I'm being really careful about what I say here, but I can say that Clint's fans will NOT be dissapointed.  This is a straightforward, murder mystery that's as honest as it is intriguing and I'm looking forward to his next feature.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Another Great Clint Movie!!","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Its a shame this movie didnt do as well at the Box Office, its sad when you see a good film like this make less then complete garbage like xXx.  Clint shines as always and this could have made a fantastic send-off for the Dirty Harry series.  If your looking for a top Action Thriller make sure you watch this, easily 10x better then most garbage being thrown out.  The only problem was about half-way through it gave the Killer away a bit too easy! "},{"Title":"A fine stylish mystery movie","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At this rate Clint Eastwood will be playing a nursing home patient in a wheel chair solving various murders when he turns 90.  He just keeps evolving nicely to reflect his age in his roles.  However the younger women he keeps getting are bordering on Woody Allen syndrome. A clever and interesting plot keep the moving rolling along.  The two women supporting actresses are very good. The two cops thrown in for comic relief are like cartoon characters...not much of an addition.  If you are an Eastwood fan, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"CLINT EASTWOOD AT HIS BEST.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good thriller that pulls out all the stops, and delivers the suspence and tension. It just keeps throwing you off. Clint Eastwood does well as actor and director. Clint Eastwood plays Terry Mcaleb a retired FBI agent with heart problems comes out of retirement to investigate the robbery shooting of a young woman, but soon discovers that another robbery shooting is connected somehow. Clint Eastwood's best film in years. It's well acted by everyone in the film, even by Jeff Daniels and Paul Rodriguez. It's no Dirty Harry, Terry Mcaleb is not as eccentric. A great thriller "},{"Title":"A golden oldie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember as a kid watching Clint on TV in Rawhide, sneaking into the drive-in 5 or 6X to see TGB&U, etc., etc. It's really nice to see Clint still got his mojo after all these years. I've been to the theater 8 or 10 times this summer, & the 2 best movies I've seen stared 2 of the guys we've watched for over 30 years. The other was Pacino in Insomina (honorable mention to H.Ford in K-19). Blood Work has a improbable plot line. But it is well acted by all involved. Go see it before the great ones are all gone. OH yeah, 3 more things I forgot  1. People who have major heart surgery get a raspy voice. Was Clint acting it or was it real? 2. Caught a preview before Blood Work   for  Dreamcatcher, can't wait. 3. Hope Bobby D's new cop movie is not another Showtime  "},{"Title":"Blood Work Decent But With Flaws","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood Work is decent but with flaws from Actor/Director Clint Eastwood whose admirable in making this movie in front and behind the camera but a slow pace and a predictable ending is what weighed it down. Eastwood turns in a good performance as Terry McCaleb a retired FBI profiler whose on the search for a serial killed he's been trailing for years. The rest of the cast including Jeff Daniels, Wanda De Jesus, Dylan Walsh, and Angelica Houston in a small role are effective as the supporting characters despite have very limited screen time. The rest of the cast are okay as well. The few violent scenes are well executed but there could have been more of them. This film seemed to be more like a crime drama with some action and thriller elements. The pacing was slow at times making the movie feel longer than it actually is and the ending which reveals the identity of the killer was sort of predictable leaving you feeling a bit disappointed. Despite it flaws though this movie will sure please almost any die hard Clint Eastwood fan. Overall Blood Work is a decent crime drama with some violence, a little suspense, and good performances by the cast but the movie could've been better if it had been faster paced and less predictable. "},{"Title":"compelling and engaging","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" sure this movie takes awhile to get going,but it does work.there's a bit of a murder(and more)mystery to solve,but unlike most formulaic movies of the genre this takes a different approach to things.i found it refreshing actually.this is really a thinking person's movie,and it's nice to have your brain engaged.it's very intelligent,with a good mix of characters.it's not predictable,even though you may think you have it figured out.it has more than one surprising revelation.if you only looking for an action packed,high suspense film,this probably isn't it.i think it's a testament to the strong writing and direction that a slower paced movie such as this succeeds as well as it does.i never found it boring once.you are always given enough to maintain a steady level of interest.and that's all that's needed you guessing and hooked.i won't say this is a masterpiece.i don't think it's that kind of movie.it's low key and character(as well as story)driven. an easy 8/10 "},{"Title":"Clint even when down, is still top drawer.","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had not seen an Eastwood movie in quite a while. Not a new one and I had thought I wish he would come out with something good again. When I was living in Santa Barbara, I went out one night to see a movie and the previews had a 'teaser' trailer for Blood Work. Watching it, I got that feeling, that he was on to something big again. The crimson trailer played and looked outstanding, the blood red film stock color and the ending with him, taking a shotgun out from the trunk of the car toward something, had me captivated. I hadn't seen Paul Rodrigez, in years on the big screen, so it was pretty hilarious, seeing him back again and flailing his arms and yelling at Terry, (Eastwood) shouting We don't need your damn donuts either McCaleb!I went and finally saw it when it opened and wow! This for me was another EastWood powerhouse film. He is a retired F.B.I profiler, who has had a recent heart transplant and a 'case' unsolved, has been brought to his doorstep, so to speak.I thought that as 'Terry' Clint was outstanding, with yet another tremendous story. With the addition of Paul Rodriguez, as a sort of 'heckler' to McCaleb's case, it made the story more interesting and a little more fun! I enjoyed the physical distress that Eastwood played out in this story, or murder. He showed his limitations in a believable state and made you pull more for him, almost 'pity' him, but Terry was above that, which made the difference for me watching this. At the point in which the investigation took Terry and the F.B.I woman friend of his,(that he helped with her career)to the little store market and as they are about to leave, Terry spots someone watching them. Someone who has been following them around and as he goes to inquire as to who and why, (he takes her 12 gage out from the trunk and holds it aiming at the vehicle, as it 'spooks' the awaiting 'tailer' the situation escalates into a shooting frenzy that pushes the driver into a 'panicked' state and he does everything he can just to evade that location, car half shot-up!! That was a high octane situation for the film that just adds to the appeal of the story. I also thought that Wanda DeJesus was totally convincing in the role of the murder victim's sister. She was looking for answers, running out of leads and questions then found, Terry. After that, once Terry was involved she found herself falling into love with him, because of the 'care' and time he put into helping restore her life by finding the answers she was looking for with a little more aggressive persistence, and knowing who and what to ask.This casting I thought was well put together, Wanda DeJesus and especially Jeff Daniels as the 'Villian' excellent trade of places for J.D. ! Eastwood is an outstanding director, who doesn't let the viewing audience with a brain down. His stories aren't senseless or overdone, he seems to know what it always takes for that story.(****) "}{"Title":"Dirrty Harry may be slowing down,but he's not out of breath yet!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I must say I completely disagree with one of the comments I have read on this site today of were the writer has described the finale as unsatifying and suggested that all the other actors in the film with the exception of Jeff Daniels,(who I must agree was superb ;and Eastwood of course)were struggling to keep up! I must totally disagree,I think that ALL the characters from Clint right down to Raymond (Graceiella's sisters son) were absolutely superb,especially considering it was their first big movie for some of them. I think they all contributed to the movie in their own small town way,and whats wrong with that,I mean we carn't all live up to Clints standards now can we. I must say its not Clints best work having seen all of his 364 films but it's not far off,and definitely worth watching (at least once) I will also add that I have watched Clints Directors commentary on the DVD and he describes his cast as Fantastic "},{"Title":"Clint should stop directing","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I thought it was terrible.  The plot tried to be tricky with a lot of twists and turns but I could see them coming a long ways ahead of time and I had the movie about solved half way through.  The acting was also terrible, Clint and Jeff Daniels were alright but the supporting cast was anywhere from average to horrid.  The latino cop was definitely the worst of the bunch, his lines either made me want to puke or laugh.  Overall this a typical murder mystery with nothing really original.Move along now, nothing to see here "},{"Title":"Gradually ticking high.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First thing to note is Clint Eastwood's choice of the story that fits his age. His earlier 'Dirty Harry' image adds on to the story. So everybody see a cat-mouse chase at the beginning when an old-man chasing a serial code killer would be overdoing. Then suddenly on the 10th minute the actual story unravels with Eastwood suffering cardiac arrest. The story paces without deviating it's pace until the end. It was unnecessary to have a gun-fight ending. The story ends when the suspense was out; then why prolonging the sequence as it used to be in a typical cat-chase thriller. But still its one of my favorites as I am Mr. Eastwood's fan. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Ingenious","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Connelly is the uncrowned king of the detective genre and this movie shows why. Of all the excuses for the veteran cop to come out of retirement to do just one last job certainly this one - that the victim of the crime he must solve is his heart donor - is the strongest and most convincing. But - and this may be a spoiler for some, although I doubt it - what is truly fascinating is the way that this critical fact serves not merely as a compelling premise, but the key to the entire intricately crafted mystery. A masterful work of craftsmanship, directed and performed with heartful compassion and powerful dignity by Clint Eastwood. As subtle and smooth as Mystic River was pompous and overblown, it features Clint Eastwood at his best, playing an officer who is at once tough but humble, and profoundly vulnearable. Yet ultimately its most valuable role may be to introduce viewers to the literary work of Michael Connelly, never so lovingly tributed as in Bloodworks. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood made a Great Film!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"                     Clint Eastwood (Terry McCaleb),True Crime,'99, was a retired FBI Agent who showed the signs of getting older in this picture. However, despite his age and heart problems, McCaleb was able to make passionate love to supporting actress Wanda DeJesus(Graciella Rivers),Once in the Life,2000. Jeff Daniels(Jasper Buddy Noone),I Witness,03, lived on a boat next door to McCaleb and helped McCaleb right to the very end of the picture!  Anjelica Huston(Dr. Bonnie Fox),Daddy Day Care,03, tried to help McCaleb with his heart problems, but he would never sit still for her to take his pulse!  Clint Eastwood showed the public that he can still give a great performance no matter what age he graduates to in life! "},{"Title":"Very Good. Recommended.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best Mystery/Detective movies I've seen in a long time. Very thrilling. Non-stop action and suspense. I would recommend this movie to anyone that is looking for a good movie of 2002.10 out of 10.People who liked this movie should check out the movie Along Came a Spider "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT Suspense Thriller!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, this was an excellent suspense film!  I originally wasn't sure if I wanted to see this one because of the title - it sounds like it might be gorey (bloody) or something, but the ticket seller said it wasn't at all and that it was just suspenseful.  So I decided to give it a try and boy am I glad I did!  It was the best suspense thriller I've seen in a long time!  I would highly recommend this one!!!  "},{"Title":"Hell of a great movie from a 72 year old veteran","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Considering Clint Eastwood is respectably 72 years old, every new film he still directs at this age feels like a divine blessing to a fanatic Clint fan as myself. Especially when the movie is as good as Blood work most certainly is. This is definitely a one hundred-per-cent classic Clint Eastwood flick in every sense of the word and the ones who love it the most are of course silly people like me. After all the years I've been watching Clint's works I actually feel like he's one of the most important persons of my whole life. I know it sounds weird, maybe even a little creepy but that's just me, try to understand. Space cowboys wasn't a traditional Clint movie even though I liked it all the same but Blood work is.I'm also a massive fan of James Bond movies but most recently the horrible Die another day unfortunately proofed how annoyingly far the series had escaped its original roots. When it comes to good old Eastwood it's totally different because I know I can always trust on this man Blood work looks, feels and tastes refreshingly traditional and old-fashioned. Eastwood is the one who doesn't betray me, he made exactly the same kind of a movies already in the 1980's - absolutely nothing has changed. Actually Clint is just about the only man who would direct a thriller like this nowadays. And I love it.Who can claim that in the end when Terry McCaleb points his gun at a wounded killer it doesn't remind us of Harry Callahan...? I read the novel when they were still filming this movie and I was thinking at the time how perfectly the leading role would fit Clint's style and mannerisms. I have to admit that although the film followed the story of the book quite loyally the completely new ending was a surprise even to me. There's a very radical twist of plot in the end that didn't happen in the novel so if you have read it, the movie version of Blood work can still surprise you. Anyway, watch this marvelous thriller. What can I say except that this is one hell of a great movie. "},{"Title":"Pass the Geritol","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In hot pursuit of a killer, FBI profiler Terry McCaleb is felled by a heart attack. Flash forward a year or two, and McCaleb is retired and recovering from a heart transplant. But he won't be inactive for long. You see, the ticker in his chest came from a Mexican woman and - a Dragnet style dum, de, dum, dum, dum is in order here - she was MURDERED! (Gasp!)McCaleb is played by Clint Eastwood, and the then 71-year-old star looks fit and healthy no matter what his doctor says. He punches Dylan Walsh, woos the much younger Wanda DeJesus (the sister of the woman whose heart now pounds in his chest), and faces the killer in a showdown without ever seeming tired or short of breath. It's Eastwood the director who's on life support. This thriller is in critical condition from the start, and the cast acts like they know it. Anjelica Huston, playing Eastwood's physician, always seems to be avoiding eye contact, as if she hopes we might not notice she's in this movie. Paul Rodriguez overacts and might as well be doing a stand-up routine with no connection to his role as a police officer. Jeff Daniels is more appealing, but his attempts to pump some life into this thing are not successful. Even though the running time is only 104 minutes, considerably shorter than the average Eastwood film, Blood Work drones on forever. Its dullness may be its only attribute. When your mind starts to wander (perhaps to thoughts of a better movie), you may not notice the story's many plot holes. "}]