[{"Title":"Good Movie... but it depends on your mindset.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a fourteen-year-old girl and while I'm certainly not the show's core demographic, I enjoyed the movie as much as I enjoy any episode of the TV series.  Hey Arnold was one of the things I had lived with since about the second grade and then one day it just turned into a full-blown obsession.But first off, let's get one thing straight, people This was NOT intended to be a big-screen movie.  It was intended to be a Nick Flick, one of Nickelodeon's made-for-TV movies.  The powers that be decided that the storyline of the series held a much more interesting premise searching for Arnold's parents.  That premise became the movie.  But then, for reasons I am not aware of, this switched back to being a theatrical movie.  Then there was some kind of disagreement, and now it's unlikely we'll ever see the second movie.  sniffleThat information aside, this is still a very enjoyable movie.  The particular theater my brother and I saw it in was filled with many parents, most of which probably had no idea of the story behind the movie (both legal and TV-show-story wise) and they still enjoyed it as much as I did.  Helga is as laughably enjoyable as ever, and the movie still contains subtle humor situations that adults will enjoy.This is a decent enough movie.  And if you still think you won't like it, go see it for us fans, who desperately want a second movie and are hoping against hope that it will be made.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"A treat for the fans","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My friend and I had said before Hey Arnold! came out that it'll probably be a pretty bad movie, because of the excessive advertising Nickelodeon put together before the release. With that in mind, I was pleasantly surprised at how wonderfully entertaining it was. Now, I've been a relatively big fan of the t.v. show since it first came out, so this is a biased review, but for anyone who's a fan of the show (and as one critic pointed out, who else would want to see this?), this is well worth watching. There's a few good pieces of comedy (mostly from Grandma and Grandpa), and the parents (who'll probably be a least a little amused by it) will notice a whole bunch of cliches from other movies, which is the style in the which many of the episodes are based upon. So the bottom line of this movie is if you're a fan of the show, this is well worth seeing. If you're not a fan (I then don't know why you're even reading this), you might be entertained, but it's up to you. "},{"Title":"Makes a pretty picture, but doesn't go outside the lines to make itself even more beautiful","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey Arnold! The Movie is harmless, cute, and eventful. Never being a huge fan of the show, but always liking it, I was pleased with the movie adaptation, but found it hard to accept. It's a longer episode of the show, but doesn't do anything daring or very memorable. The Simpsons got sealed into a dome, South Park started a war with Canadians, and even Spongebob set foot on land. Arnold didn't accomplish something as monumental as all the others.For what it is, it's nothing but an extended episode of the show. Arnold and his pals Gerald and Helga try to stop Mr. Sheck, a giant businessman, from taking over their small neighborhood and replacing it with a huge, revolutionary mall. This means destroying Arnold's block and possibly losing all of his friends in the mix.Its entertainment stems from its simplicity and the character's desire to achieve their goal. They try and buy secret agent gear to sneak into Sheck's office. Arguably my favorite scene in the movie is the broken hearted bus driver complaining about his failed relationship. The scene mirrors the film Speed, and is pretty much one of the best homages to the film I've seen.But like I said, if you're going to bring it to the big screen, do something bigger than the series. This could've been an hour long special on Nickelodeon. A seventy-five minute film based on a Nickelodeon's series doesn't say much other than we thought we'd make you see it a different way. Arnold is likable to a degree, but he's just another perky kid who wants a seemingly impossible thing done. Every character we've seen before. The one character I absolutely loved in the show was Oskar Kokoshka, a con artist who lived in Arnold's apartment. He has a brief appearance in the film, and does his signature voice I've loved since my childhood. Sadly, his presence is far too short. He he he.Hey Arnold! The Movie isn't bad, but not consistently funny. The voice acting is good, the characters are still charming, the only thing that fails is its ability to stay inside the lines and not venture out to explore a bigger range in storytelling. At this point in time, the future of the series looked grim, and it seems the movie just serves as a piece of the show's history.Voiced by Spencer Klein, Francesca Smith, Jamil Walker Smith, Dan Castellaneta, Tress MacNeille, Paul Sorvino, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Christopher Lloyd. Directed by Tuck Tucker. "},{"Title":"i thought it was pretty good","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i haven't see the show that this cartoon is based on,so i can't compare it to that.as a standalone movie,though,i thought it was pretty good.i liked the characters and their quirks.the story was full of intrigue and suspense.yes,i said it suspense,even though it's a cartoon.the movie also moves along at a decent clip.there are a lot of pop cultural references,some modern,some older,but many adults will get them.of course there's also some references only kids will get,but there is enough for everybody.the movie isn't particularly hilarious,but it does have some amusing moments,and even one or two quite funny parts.there are some fairly dark and mature themes in this movie,so it might be too much for young kids.i'd say it would be OK for anyone over 10,depending on maturity level,of course.for me,Hey Arnold!The Movie is about a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Impossible, could never happen movie but it's good for the kids","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey Arnold! The Movie is one of those movies where there is a easy to get into plot but there are too many things in the plot that can never be done in real life. Kids can't be spies, kids can't drive a bus,and such. Now this film spoofs too many things as well. The whole idea with the pickle juice on Big Bob, ripping his shirt, and he is all green except for his brown slacks, horrible rip off of the hulk! They spoof Scooby-Doo's best line  I would of gotten away with it if it wasn't for that football headed kid, his friend with the long hair, and the girl with the one eyebrow! But hey, this is a Nickelodean movie so it's supposed to be for kids. If you like Hey Arnold the t.v show you'll like this. This t.v itself movie gets the big 6, good for kids and some adults but could never happen. Fun for the whole family! "},{"Title":"Arnold is great on the big screen!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have been a big Hey Arnold! fan from the beginning & was perfectly pleased with the movie.  It flowed much like the cartoons in the series & I was very happy that it wasn't over done with bad graphics like other cartoons that have come to the big screen.  The long awaited Helga Confession Scene was perfect in every sense, even in the aftermath.  I feel that nothing has changed except a deeper understanding of each other.Hey Arnold! is an awesome cartoon & is too often over looked by adults & children.  Still the avid fans, it's classic characters & true to life storylines make it an excellent cartoon for both spectrums of the age group.  It wouldn't be Nick's 2nd longest running Nicktoon if it wasn't a great cartoon.  I say congrats to Arnold & Craig (the shows inspired creator) for a great show & look forward for greater ones to come. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i never get tired of watching this movie. every time i see it i find something new. and franny smith is great, as always. and gerald saying the Hebrew prayer! and, well, just everything! my father and i loved this movie. my dad has only gone to the theatres to see one movie in the past twenty years, THIS one, and he has no regrets. it's a great movie for any movie buffs with indiana jones, hulk, speed, prisoner, fugitive references, oh, beautiful. i love arnold so much. this movie is great for anyone with the intelligence to pay attention. the animation isn't as good as the show, but once you get past that it's the coolest movie.  "},{"Title":"Too cool to be live!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" yes, the movie is too good but the movie can go live action version. think of it... Alexander Gould (of Finding Nemo) can be Arnold! unfortunately, the movie should have a love scene. Wish there's a Hey Arnold vs Recess team up movie, but hey, besides, let's give Francesca Marie Smith kudos to her good voice acting! Wish that there will be a sequel! and the show has to continue till season 10! well...the movie should have 3D and anime CGI to make the movie fun. the enemy reminds me of another movie's enemy, Dr. Benedict of Recess-School's out. the movie should have other characters from the show, like the older subs of Gerald and Helga (as in Jaime O and Olga), and Arnold's cousin Arnie. the movie needs a bit of improvement (maybe in the sequel- if it will be released sooner or later) but it's okay! "},{"Title":"Drat, No Jungle Movie","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey Arnold! The Movie is a decent and somewhat uninspired movie based on the legendary Nicktoon Hey Arnold!. I liked this movie better as a kid, now I realize that everything was just happening way too quickly. The plot revolves around Arnold's neighborhood being tore down by a greedy city developer and he and his friend, Gerald, have to stop before it's too late. It wasn't the most original movie ever made, but it was enjoyable. The best part was when the Grandma tried to escape from jail, and later we see her leaving a man's toilet in a parody of The Shawshank Redemption. If you're a fan of the show or just love animation movies, pick this one out for the kids. There's not too much to sit through it's only 80 minutes long. My rating 6/10 Rated PG for Thematic Elements "},{"Title":"Decent, but not as engaging as it ought to have been","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love the show, this movie was just decent in my opinion.Pros The animation is very good, very vibrant and colourful. The music is infectious and memorable. The dialogue is witty and funny, with plenty of modern and adult pop culture references to satisfy adults and teenagers, and there is enough funny dialogue to amuse kids too. The characters are still the charming characters I know and love, and the voice acting is great.Cons The pace is uneven, the ending feels rushed and the middle drags a tad. The additional characters are well voiced and animated, but not as interesting as they had potential to be. What hurts the film is the story, a good idea but too thin and predictable for the running time.Overall, decent as a standalone, but not as engaging it ought to have been and I hate to say this, the show is better. 6/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Does this film suck or rule?","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film with my sister 6 weeks ago. It's about a mean mayor named Scheck who wants to destroy the town and Arnold and the gang don't like the idea. So they plan to come up with a plan they have a party to see themselves on TV so everyone will disagree with Scheck's plan to destroy the town. Arnold and Gerald go to talk to Scheck and he doesn't listen he calls security and asks them to have Arnold and Gerald removed from the office. Eugene was singing some songs about the neighborhood. Arnold and Gerald then get a bus driver to drive them all through town or should I say the United States? Then Scheck winds up admitting he records everything that goes on in his building Arnold takes a piece of bubble gum and sticks it on the camcorder he then steals the tape and gets the police he shows it to the public and it shows Scheck burning the rights of Americans they then disagree with his plan and Scheck is soon arrested. "},{"Title":"A GREAT MOVIE - spoilers","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a great movie.  I love the series on tv and so I loved the movie. One of the best things in the movie is that Helga finally admits her deepest darkest secret to Arnold!!! that was great. i loved it  it was pretty funny too. It's a great movie! Doy!!! "},{"Title":"A Great Kid's Movie!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a really great kid's movie! It is especially great for children who are fans of the cartoon. The movie is about Arnold, and his friends and family when they discover that a man named Sheck is going to knock down their city and install a giant mall. Now Arnold and his friends have six days to come up with a plan to save the neighborhood, with some help of the mysterious Deep Voice, can they save the neighborhood before it's too late? All in all, this is a really good kid's movie. I give Hey Arnold! The Movie a 10 out of 10!!! ) "},{"Title":"Awful awful awful","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember first watching this movie way back when Nickelodeon first aired it back in 2005. I didn't like it back then and I sure definitely don't like it now.The plot is this. Arnold's city is threaten to get torn down and it's up to Arnold and his protégé to save the town.Or so you think. Arnold, Gerald and Helga are the only main characters of this movie to get any sort of screen time. Phoebe, Harold, Rhonda and the others are only there shoehorned into the movie, with no purpose and tacked on as pure afterthoughts.The movie grinds to a halt as 80% of it basically consisted of the cast discussing how it would be best for them to save the town. This is a case of the characters doing more talking than action and it's incredibly dull. The action stumbles and the only interesting side story to all of it was Helga playing as Deep Voice secretly helping Arnold out.The ending to the movie, is nothing but a horrible parody on the 1993 classic Speed with the wild goose chase sequence with jumping across a bridge and nearly hitting an old lady with a baby stroller of cans.Unlike other movies for kids like The Powerpuff Girls Movie, there are no moral lessons that relate to the audience or for kids to learn, once everything is said and done.What's worse is Helga finally revealing her deep affections towards Arnold (near the end of it all) and Arnold seems creeped out by it, essentially killing the love and chemistry the two had. Pathetic.A second Hey Arnold! movie was planned to be made involving Arnold finally getting to met his parents face to face, before it was scrapped because the first one was a failure at the box office.The cartoon was eventually cancelled by 2005 and for good reason. There are numerous cartoon movies I recommend watching more than this one. This isn't one of them. 2/10 for the voice acting talent of the characters, which admittedly is pretty good. But rest assured, this movie is horrible when you compare it to it's contemporaries. "},{"Title":"Our Football-Shaped Hero!","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One thing that works very well about Hey Arnold! The Movie is the sense of nostalgia the film invokes. As a fan of the show growing up, it was certainly nice to get back into this world Nickelodion created. Looking back with adult eyes, I can see why children loved this series, including myself. It's a series about best friends going on adventures and the romance between Arnold and Helga. I was disappointed with this movie in a regard, because it does not tie up an important storyline which was important to the series. Other than that, I thoroughly enjoyed this nostalgic trip. This film has Arnold and his best friend, Gerald rescuing their neighborhood from the evil Mr. Scheck who wants to turn their homes into a modernized shopping complex. Overall, Hey Arnold! The Movie is worth the trip down memory lane since it has been years since I have last seen an episode of this cartoon. It was never my favorite series, despite me finding it passable. The bickering between Helga and Arnold goes on a little more than I would have liked. I did like the spoofs the movie has to offer, especially the Men in Black spoof. A merely passable film for the family. My Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Every time I see an anti-pollution movie, I feel like dying a little more.","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Alright, yes, this is a movie for children. But if you're smart, by the cover poster alone you can tell it's biased, portraying the corrupt, polluting, sleazy businessman as he reaches town to grab the head of the funny-looking kid on the front. Basically a man is planning on bulldozing down the town (that's right, the whole town, what is this, the Love Canal? That explains the kid's funny-shaped mutated head). Environmentalist hippie propaganda showing up in kid's films was popular at the time (I.E. Toxic Crusaders, The Secret World of Alex Mack, etc.) It makes me very depressed to see all the beautiful industrialism and pollution being given a bad rep, and having these annoying environmental ideologies shoved at children without letting them decide for themselves whether or not to care about the earth. Now, for me to say I hated the film based on that alone would be a pointless reason, but the soundtrack was annoying, as was the voice acting, it was incredibly dorky even for a children's film, overall just annoying and weird. If you want a movie to show your kids, try The Brave Little Toaster (1987) or Coraline (2009). It's honestly your decision, I'm just providing my own opinion. "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember back in 2002, the movie came out and I really wanted to see it but I didn't had the chance too. But I've watched it on TV and looked at it again on DVD and to me the movie is OK but not great. It should've worked as a three parter TV movie, as originally intended and they could have used 'The Jungle Movie' as the actual movie. The story is of course predictable as we all know that in the end, Arnold saves his neighbourhood. The animation is OK but bland looking in some places, as other Nickelodeon movies like the Rugrats were animated well to make the movie look pleasurable. It's not the best movie ever made by Nickelodeon but it has a good story, yet easily predictable and the animation is OK but can be bland most of the time. I would prefer 'The Jungle Movie' over it though. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, But Not As Good As It Could've Been","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been a fan of Hey Arnold ever since I watched it growing up as a kid and it still remains one of my favorite nicktoons till this day. I remember seeing the movie when it came out in theaters and finally got around to revisiting it. I have to say while it's enjoyable, it really does feel more like the t.v special it was intended to be and not a movie. The plot is pretty weak and the length of the movie feels forced at even it's short 70 min runtime. The animation also isn't that great for a theatrical film (some of the later episodes of the show actually had better animation). But, it's flaws don't keep it from being enjoyable. The film still sticks to the shows humor and characters well and keeps itself going at a good pace which makes it so the film never really slows down. Still, I feel like it really didn't a movie and it probably should've just stayed a t.v special. If you're a die hard fan of the show, you'll most likely be disappointed but still enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Me and my friend had nothing to do one day, so we went to see this movie. I knew it wasn't gonna be great but hey, it passed time.... the movie was pretty boring, but I still had fun seeing it. Younger kids will enjoy this movie a lot. I guess it was okay, because you have to remember, it was made for KIDS.All in all.. I give it a 5/10 "},{"Title":"I give it mixed reviews","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey Arnold! The Movie has its good and bad points. At thebeginning and in certain points I found it to be rather boring givingthe same amount of information as in the previews.It was alsopredictable at times.Despite its problems the movie more thanmade up for it with its strong points.The character Arnold'sGrandpa was certainly a strong point in this movie with his wittycomments and often confusion.Also Helga and the way the childaudience can relate,a young girl with not enough courage to tellher love how she really feels and frequently trying  to hide it withscowls and some what nasty comments.Its hard to say if it wasgood or bad some good some bad ranging around the typicalarea for a childrens movie. "}{"Title":"GREAT SHOW! But mediocre movie....","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie wasn't so great. I mean, it wasn't horrible, but it wasn't great, the whole movie centers around Arnold and Gerald finding some kind of charter or something prooving that their town is genuine and shouldn't be shut down and rebuilt. I think it's a real retarted story line, but I'm not a little kid, I'm no adulty-adult, but I'm not kid, anyways maybe little kids will think it's so great. But it took in the lowest ratings it's first week, so that must say something about how stupid it seemed. Okay, it wasn't stupid, but it wasn't great either. There aren't alot of funny parts, and funny parts that were meant to be funny weren't funny, but the movie did have it's MINISCULE moments. I wouldnt recomend buying it. It's not that good. I like the series way better. "},{"Title":"A pretty crappy and no dout corney movie 1-10 stars","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie I didn't want to see it at all but my youngest son wanted to so I went with him. You know this may be kind of weird but if you ask me this movie is a pretty bad influence to kids, Why? Because it's not right for a fourth grader to be able to get a bunch of equitment to do illegal things, Why? Because in this case a company didn't come barging in they got permission from a person that can make laws and there's no right for a kid to break the law by sneaking around big buissness and stuff just because a couple of kids thinks it's unfair when the parents, the mayor, and the govener all agreed that this could happen. I mean what is this going to teach our children To be spoiled brats and beg and yell and scream when something happens that they don't like? It sounds pretty dumb, but you have to admit I do have a point and plus one of the major reasons is that it's a kid movie. Well what does that have to do with anything? Alot, because you know that it's just going to be a happy ending and the kid or kids are going to win or get something they wanted or whatever and you know something life ain't that simple, but Nickeloden seems to think it is and seems to think that they can show kids that they can get whatever they want and it really doesn't work like that. (At least in my opinion). "},{"Title":"Not for Adult Viewing.  Children only!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Only children below the age of 12 should be allowed to see this film.  The rest of us should take a book, MP3 player, or just take a nice nap to endure the experience of this event.  This can be best summed up as a blown-up TV movie being distributed into theaters.  Children will want to see this film, and they will like and be amused by the movie. "},{"Title":"Not so bad","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My little brother dragged me to see this movie, I have never seen the show on Nickelodeon and I was dreading seeing it all week.  My brother loved it and I have to say it wasn't that bad, it is actually kind of cute and I wasn't half as bored as I thought I would be.  It is obviously a kids movie but I think adults will be able to watch it and enjoy it too.  "},{"Title":"Hey Arnold! The Movie","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I used to like the TV series when I was younger, so I thought if I watched The Rugrats Movie (also from Nikelodeon), then I might as well try this movie. Basically Arnold (Spencer Klein), the football headed fourth grade kid and his many neighbourhood friends and family find out that their town is going to be flattened to make way for a new mega-mall to be run by Mr. Scheck (Goodfellas' Paul Sorvino). The only way they can save the town is to prove from a story that Arnold's Grandpa (The Simpsons' Dan Castellaneta) told that there was a historic event that makes the town a landmark. With all the TV show characters, including Helga, who pretty much tells her secret love to Arnold, best friend Gerald, Grandma, Stinky, Eugene and Mayor Dixie. With guest voices including Jennifer Jason Leigh as Bridget, Christopher Lloyd as Coroner and Tomorrow Never Dies' Vincent Schiavelli as Mr. Bailey. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"The worst way to end this show!","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to admit that I'm a great fan of this show, so you must know how disappointed I got when I watched this movie. First of all, the plot was awful, I thought it was going to be something more interesting, like to see what happened to Arnold fathers, or something more interesting, but NOOOOOOO, a maniac wants to destroy Arnold's house, between many other places, so many people tries to stop this.I must admit that the plot wasn't so bad after all, but what really sucked were the steps that Arnold and his friends do to stop this maniac, they become friends of a spy,; they drive a bus (based on a video game, for God sake), and to worse everything, they make super-moves on the bus, things that many persons had already tried and died, but not Arnold, Gerald and Helga, 'cause they are experts on a video game.Honestly, my mom, my sister, even me got really disappointed after watching this movie, 'cause it was the worst way to finish a really good cartoon. I must admit that I used to enjoy Hey Arnold!, it was one of my favorite cartoons on Nickelodeon, but after this crap of movie, I'm not quite sure if I'm going to watch Hey Arnold! as I used to watch it on the past.Other thing Nickelodeon, with that enormous number of dynamite I can assure you that not a simple street would explode, I think that the whole city could explode with that, oh, and please, if all of your future movies from good cartoons are going to be like that, don't do more movies, you give a bad critic to cartoons that used to be good.Honestly, I think this was the worst way to end this show, a good show transformed into this crap of movie. "},{"Title":"Wildly Entertaining!!!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The film version of the popular children's television show on Nickelodeon retained the same charm that fans everywhere know and love.  The plot wasn't exactly unpredictable, and the animation was not of the finest quality, but it was still able to be wildly entertaining, and because of this, I highly recommend this film.  I LOVE HEY ARNOLD! "},{"Title":"Surprised!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was thinking going into this movie thinking that i was going to hate it.All the critics hated it and said that Nickeloden made a mistake making this movie.But as i begin to watch i started like it.I mean it only lasts 76 minutes.So i spent $4.50 to see it and surprisingly i enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Hey Arnold! Why was Your Movie so Disappointing?","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey Arnold, why was your movie terrible and irrelevant? The Hey Arnold Movie confirmed the idea that a movie based off a TV show is the death of the series. The plot to this movie was silly, the voices were off, and even the animation didn't look right. I wanted so much more from this movie and I was so disappointed because I loved the series itself so much. It was one of my favorites and as a fan I felt betrayed by this piece of garbage. The plot to this movie is a millionaire named Scheck wants to destroy Arnold's neighborhood to build a mall complex. That's it, and it was pathetic. First of all, that is the big problem in the movie and we find that out within the first five minutes of the movie. Arnold and Gerald are walking down the street and then a giant TV shows up with Scheck's face on it explaining his plan. I thought it was weak. The major problem came up and appeared way too soon. Build a story, a backbone, and then develop a conflict. It was upsetting, and then it got worse when Arnold had about a month to save the neighborhood. Noble of Arnold to be the hero and try to save the neighborhood and obviously that works for the story and fits his character. Arnold is the main character and the hero, and as the hero he does his job. Here was a major problem, they had a month and in a short montage the month passes and ideas t save the neighborhood disappeared. The block party was a great idea but it came and went so fast and was so unimportant. The countdown literally goes from thirty days to two days in a matter of seconds. Time was wasted and so much potential was lost. Businesses and houses had to sell and just a few days before the demolition, Grandpa tells a story of the tomato incident. Long story short, the boarding house and the rest of the neighborhood is a national landmark. Hope remains for little Arnold and his neighborhood. I was perfectly fine with the story of the tomato incident and how Scheck was involved. It was a story that fit with a cartoon and certainly was entertaining. Why was this story not told earlier? Now the rest of the story has to be crammed into two days for Arnold to save the neighborhood. There was so much time wasted for nothing. This movie was only 76 minutes, that's only a little over an hour. Most animation films are around 90 minutes. Nonetheless, Arnold and Gerald go on a mission for one last hurray before the bulldozers destroy their past and future. Big Bob Pataki had to be involved somehow; he is a sort of villain throughout the entire series. He has a deal with Scheck to build a beeper emporium and promises Helga she will be rich. Thus creates an inner problem with Helga, which was perfectly fine. I will give the movie credit; they do stick to some of their roots and gave some fans what they were looking for. Her role in the movie was appropriate but she exposed her secret. She proclaimed her love to Arnold and a major part of the series was keeping that a secret. Now, I had mixed emotions for that scene. A big part of me hated it because it is a line a cartoon should not cross. A cartoon never reveals a question like that; It would be like Plankton getting the Krabby Patty recipe. Another part of me likes it and gave the film credit for taking that risk and making that jump. Arnold now knows and nothing will ever be the same. It could have been the destruction of the series, or a risk worth taking. In the end Arnold asked Helga if she meant it and she obviously denied the entire thing so I guess it really doesn't matter but that is up to the viewer. In the end Scheck loses because he burns the document proving the neighborhood is a landmark and he loses. And overall, this movie was incredibly disappointing, and I wish t could have been remade. The animation was sloppy. Everything looked so depressing and dirty. The characters even looked different and the voices were different. It had a different vibe that was not the Hey Arnold vibe. This movie was an abomination to a great TV series and joins Dinotopia and Passion of the Christ in getting the WillyT seal of disapproval. The seal of disapproval is the seal of approval turned upside-down and just means shame on the director and actors for trying. They disappointed their true fans and is a disgrace. Don't watch it, don't buy it, and don't even download it for free. It is not worth it, take it from me, I am the expert. "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment for a fine cartoon","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey Arnold! is one of the few quality TV shows for all kids these days, with a cast of likeable and unique characters and thought provoking episodes.  But you won't see much of it here in this disappointing and underwhelming big screen picture.  There have been far worse films (supposedly) made for kids in recent years, but that's not to say that this average and generic movie deserved to cash in at the box office, either.From the opening credits until just before the ending, the film completely lacks the feel of a major motion picture; it feels more like your typical TV movie (This movie, in fact, was originally made for TV).  Throughout the first half of the film everything is happening so quickly, that it's difficult to build up any interest for the plot.  Midway through the film, I already asked myself why Nickelodeon didn't put this on TV for free instead of milking it for short-term cash.The two biggest disappointments of the movie was the storyline development itself and the use of the series' characters.Amidst the rush of the storyline, the film actually does a decent job of building up the conflict between Arnold and the villain, Mr. Scheck.  But all of it goes to waste when the multimillionaire Scheck reveals his ridiculous motives.  It was very anticlimatic and I didn't take the movie very seriously after that; I thought of at least two alternate ways the movie could've ended (while taking away most of the excitement).The three main characters in the series (Arnold, Helga, & Gerald) take up most of the film's significance, as they should.  But what of the secondary characters (Arnold's grandparents, Phoebe, Sid, Harold, Rhonda, Eugene, and a few others), most which have had at least two of the 100+ episodes based on them?  The ability to add depth to these other characters is what helps make the TV show interesting; but here they get shoehorned into this film without being able to help Arnold at all.  They remain likeable, but ultimately are not at all memorable.  Even the other characters made for this movie (Bridget, the coroner, and the one-legged man) get more of the face time.Part of the film does focus on the relationship between Arnold and Helga (who passionately loves Arnold even though she pretends to hate him), and the moment when she finally admits her love for him (and how he reacts to it) as the movie nears the final major scene.  It's one of the main concepts of the TV show, and the only valuable part of this movie.Otherwise, this was a very average film with a simplistic and uninspiring story, cluttered with useless characters.  This mediocre outing by the show's creators will likely mark the beginning of the end for a fine TV series.  Besides, when Nickelodeon still has the Rugrats, Spongebob, and a roster of new hit shows at its disposal, why continue to focus on a cartoon that failed miserably on the biggest stage? "}{"Title":"A Waste of Theatre Space","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only reason this movie was made was because of Viacom's greed.  Nothing about it distinguishes it from the TV series.  Don't waste your entertainment dollars on it, wait until it's out on home video and watch it on your living room TV. "},{"Title":"Average kids fare","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We saw this film as a sneak preview. My 7 year old son was mildly amused by the film, my 3 year old daughter was bored. It was pretty much a long episode of the TV show, which is cute but not one of my favorites. There were a few laughs but it was more the calibre of Doug's First Movie than other Nick films like Rugrats and Jimmy Neutron.If your kids enjoy the show, they'll enjoy the movie. As an adult I could definitely take it or leave it. "},{"Title":"A good MOVIE.","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A great movie with some fantastic animation. I love watching the cartoon series and I also love watching the movie too. Hey Arnold is about a nasty man who wants to get rid of the neighbourhood and wants to change it into a big shopping mall.Hey Arnold (voice of Spencer Klein)and his pals Gerald(voice of Jamil Walker Smith)and Helga(voice of Francesca Smith)try to save their neighbourhood and eventually succeed.The film is actually good even tough it is a bit unrealistic like Gerald drives the bus but anyway the film is great and I which they make Hey Arnold 2.If Hey Arnold was live action it would have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"...like Shelley Long when SHE left television to be in the movies!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's true  Hey Arnold! The Movie is contrived, generic, lazy, and sloppy. But do not let that deter you from taking a peep.  Many other users have recommended looking upon this movie as an extra-long tv episode, which is probably the best approach.  I bought this movie without ever having seen it.  Though I feel it was overpriced, I will likely watch it several times over.  As a 26 year-old I don't make a practice of watching children's shows, preferring hard-hitting news and political commentary shows to predictable themes and fart jokes.  That's just it, though  Hey Arnold! caters to a more mature audience by delivering wisdom, practicality, originality, and nostalgic humor sometimes.  Fans of the show were likely tempted to see the movie by the promise of Helga's love confession. Incidentally, that's the main reason I bought my copy.  The lukewarm response to the film (rightfully so) may lead to cancellation of the series, which is why I am determined to acquire every bit of Hey Arnold! memorabilia that I can.  Long live the adorable football head! "},{"Title":"They forgot this is a KIDS movie...","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What were the creators thinking? They must have forgot their target audience. What kids will learn from this movie it is OKAY to beat up someone that ripped you off; it is OKAY to blow up a road in order to save the neigborhood; it is OKAY to escape from jail so you can see your grandchildren; it is OKAY to break into someone else's home because they run a big-baddy corporation. Even if you're not some Jesus freak moralist, you've gotta hate their lame attempts at street cred. "},{"Title":"Not hateful but definitely too average to be easily enjoyed","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey Arnold is another slab of filmmaking from the Nickelodeon channel bringing forth a patented Nick Toon to amuse the masses of kids.  After watching this, I kept wondering what was so wrong with Ren and Stimpy to leave that in the dust while this, Doug, Rugrats (2 movies), Wild Thornberries, get attention to the box office?  But then that's irrelevant to the review.  I mention it if only because a movie like this comes so standard, so puffed with a plotline kids in the second grade have heard since they were three, and with sterility (in particular in the Shawshank parody), it is a wonder why something as original as Ren and Stimpy doesn't make its way to the theater.  Oh well, next week I get an answer- Powerpuff Girls.PS, there are two funny jokes in this movie for all and then the rest will vary on how much the parents and kids will tolerate- a parody of the Hulk and a cameo from Christopher Lloyd as a mortician.  Grade between C and C- "},{"Title":"Exactly the same as the show","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No bells or whistles, no shiny moviemagic, no nothing. In the way Xfiles movie was perceived as an elongated episode of the show, so is this. Problem is, it looks grotty. The actual look is so identical to the show it does not translate well to being introduced to 'blown-up-o'vision'. The animation is utterly identical to the show, everything is.Fact is this if you like Hey Arnold!, then you'll probably enjoy this as a decent episode. But no way does this deserve to be a movie. It looks not even as good as a rushed job, and the plot is as shabby as anything *I* could come up with in 2 minutes.It's a kid's movie, with some half-decent gags to be fair, but it's a rip off. "},{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Look I Know it's No Where Near As Good as The Show,And I Know It Cuts Out Way To Many Characters + It Didn't Finish A load of plot lines From the show(e.g.Gerald And Phoebe) But It Was Still An Enjoyable Movie that Of Course Would Have Worked better as at TV episode But Still They're The Only real problems the rest is GOLD. It's Got A Good Story, The Great Music, The Helga/Arnold Arc Is Swen Up, GRANDPA AND GRANDMA!! BRILLIANT CHARACTERS. i Also Believe that They Didn't put much work into the movie since Craig Bartlett Had Left Nick At This Point.Maybe If they Had more time it would have been better Also if you learn what the original plot was,You'll Think ''Ahh That Was Much Better'' So Say What You Will About Hey Arnold The Movie, It's Still Got A Better Script Then Most Kids Movies + It's Always On Nick UNLIKE THE SHOW "},{"Title":"One of the best ''kids'' movie's!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is by far better then any of the ''Disney'' movie's put out in recent years. It has comedy, action, drama all in one. A great movie for children and adults. It would have done a lot better in theaters if only ''Nickelodeon'' gave it even half as much publicity as the ''Wild Thornberry's'' movie. Great voice cast. RATING A very very good 10/10. Worth Watching.  "},{"Title":"Why, Arnold?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I like animated shows.  I enjoy the Nick fare pretty much, including Hey, Arnold.  But moving a TV show to the Big Screen isn't easy and this just didn't feel big enough.  It was more like a long episode of the show, and it just didn't move along that well.  Judging by the behavior of the kids we had with us, it didn't score that well with them either. "}{"Title":"Simply for kids!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When HEY ARNOLD! first came on the air in 1996, I watched it. It was one of my favorite shows. Then the same episodes started getting shown over and over again so I got tired of waiting for new episodes and stopped watching it. I was sort of surprised when I heard about HEY ARNOLD! THE MOVIE since it doesn't seem to be nearly as popular as some of the other Nickelodeon cartoons like SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS. Nevertheless, having nothing better to do, I went to see the movie anyway. Going into the theater, I wasn't expecting much. I was just expecting it to be a dumb movie version of a childrens' cartoon like the RECESS movie was. I guess I got what I expected. It was a dumb kiddie movie and nothing more. There were some good parts here and there, but for the most part, the movie was a stinker. Simply for kids. "},{"Title":"Bad bad movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  tries to be funny and fails miserably. The animation is just terrible, looks like a 2 year old threw it together in his sleep. Plot is dull and cliched. IF you have a young child, maybe rent it. but don't waste hard earned money to pay to see it.1/10 "}]