[{"Title":"An unexpected and necessary masterpiece","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"259 out of 331 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Comedy is tragedy + time, right? We're now over 7 years out from the apex of the American financial crisis, which spiraled outward across the world, and yet what has really changed? People are still making millions/billions off the suffering of others, corporate control reigns supreme, fraud is common and remains largely unknown, wealth continues to be ever more concentrated in the grasp of a few, and the remainder of the populace are treated as proverbial rats and made to feel uncouth should they question the system and question not wanting to live their lives playing this sadistic game. Taking 2 pennies and selling them to someone for a hundred dollars remains a legal activity, just call those pennies by a different name and suddenly it's okay to pass them off as fair market.It doesn't sound funny at all, but The Big Short succeeds in turning this demented and corrupt circus into something improbably hilarious and probing. The power of comedy is its ability to let us see something from a different viewpoint, allow us to process it in ways we wouldn't have been able to otherwise. As we might laugh at children for the hilariously unaware things they say and do, so too will humankind in the future hopefully laugh at how completely pathetic and ignorant our present society has been. Martin Scorsese opened the flap up into the circus entrance with "The Wolf of Wall Street" and, while making good points, was perhaps a bit too concerned with his own technique and had a bit too much indulgence reveling in the frivolity of it all. The Big Short completely blows the top of the circus and dissects it in every way, starting with the widespread fraud and greed in business, and then examining how it has seeped into our entire existences. Even the good guys here are ultimately out there to make money, lots of it. Isn't that what society tells us we must to do, in order to be valuable? It's sick.McKay's approach here is "throw everything in, including the kitchen sink" and that creates an energetic, brilliantly matched representation of the subject matter. This does not mean he is lacking control, however. The story being told includes so many facets and characters that it easily could have fallen into disarray, but McKay makes every single character memorable and illuminates every piece of jargon that could be confusing from the outset. It's a huge accomplishment and a far more important one than might seem apparent. The things that were allowed to happen in the realms of business, finance, and banking are absolutely INSANE and unbelievable. It has to be largely comedic because there's no other way of delivering this vast amount of information and complete failure of our entire society and make it all snap into place so continuously, without being ripped apart by the overwhelming darkness of it all. This isn't simply circumstantial and theoretical and mysterious to a degree, as in Oliver Stone's "JFK", but the cold hard truth.It's not enough to even ask for the truth anymore and ask for answers, we need to question the entire system, a whole web of poisonous bonds that have tightly wound themselves so entirely around us. The work of the film itself is allowing us to project our thoughts, our fears, our anger, and our confusions into this convoluted conundrum. All while being told the truth, so that we at least have a place to even start down the correct path of understanding. It's acting as our own investigative journey in a time when actual news and journalism has become a tiny spec of its former self. We now have more information than ever available to us, yet it's often so shrouded and twisted as to become unrecognizable. There are still those who fear education for what it would do to their own position in life, how it would challenge their own reality. We are still held under the thumb of "greed is good", "thinking you're inherently better is good", "vanity is good".The shiny mainstream hallmarks of a typical Hollywoood commercial product - the agreeable lighting and manicured actors and tidy locations - are so perfectly representative in this film of the emptiness within the characters and indeed in our entire society. After all the progress we think we've made towards world peace and human rights and medical advances and the stability of the human race, have we lost sight of what a fulfilling life and a world of justice should really be? Aren't we still captive to the same pointless rituals and superficialities, doesn't a veritable monarch and royal court still control most everything? We are now living our lives working for something that can be wiped out with the stroke of a keyboard. We are told something of monetary worth that is non-existent, for all intents and purposes, is something we should strive for. Making a bet on the outcome of another bet is a whole industry. The non-existent and ridiculous and pointless directly hurts the lives of many.The Big Short is one of the most important films of this era and one of the best. I wanted to laugh and cry at the same time. It is an illumination, a magical pairing of a director's sensibility to exactly the correct form that most fully allows it to blossom and hold water. It is water which the film warns us will be the next basic human necessity to be denied by those few who hold power. "},{"Title":"The Best movie I've seen all year.","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"200 out of 260 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I will keep the review simple. Although some of the financial jargon went over my head, i would say Adam McKay is a genius, to make a movie about the financial crisis this much entertaining, funny and touching that's a feat only few filmmakers can pull off, and a lot of that has to do with the tremendous cast of this movie. The Big Short has a large ensemble cast but focuses on four major players who benefited in various ways from betting against the American economy. Steve Carell gives one of the best performance of his career, Christian bale portrays the awkward lonely genius with ease. Ryan gosling is slick over the top and funny in this movie he also makes the whole thing much more interesting. Brad Pitt is kind of a good guy and the moral center. This is a must see, and needs multiple viewings to truly appreciate. "},{"Title":""The Big Short" is educational, relevant and entertaining.","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"127 out of 156 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nothing Small about "The Big Short""The Big Short" is based on the book with the same name by financial journalist Michael Lewis. It is about collateralized debt obligations, subprime mortgages, credit default swaps and bundling. A snoozer right? Not one bit. "The Big Short" is more entertaining than most films in the cineplex this holiday season. Even if you don't know much about the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007-08, you will recognize a quality film and want to know more about the world economic collapse when the film is over. The film uses a multitude of techniques to tell the story. There are fourth-wall breaking monologues, a model in a bubble bath explaining economics as well as a singing idol and a celebrity chef using metaphors of cooking and gambling to explain the economic crisis. There are jump cuts, slow motion, foreshadowing and flash backs. The filmmakers use any and all tricks to explain a complicated mess of financial chicanery in order to help the audience understand. The banks, mortgage brokers, the credit ratings agencies and the government manipulated people in the nation and world into investing in worthless packages of bonds, and it behooves the director and writer, Adam McKay, to use all cinematic tricks to explain and untangle the financial corruption. The miracle is that the film deciphers the economic melt-down well while entertaining its audience. The acting is stellar from the stars to the bit players. They aren't just playing a role, they embody characters during a remarkable time in history. My mother thinks Steve Carrell was the best actor in the film, for she did not even recognize him at first. He plays against character and she liked that. However, my mother had never seen Carrell in "The Office." His character, Mark Baum, is much like the boss from that television series. However, in "The Big Short", he plays it straight. He is a boss of a fund under the umbrella of Morgan Stanley (but it's not Morgan Stanley, and his team likes to point out), and he is on a mission to bring down banks, to show them up, and to prove he's been right about the financial warning signs. He is betting against the hand that feeds him, Morgan Stanley.I preferred Christian Bale's performance as Michael Burry, an unselfconscious, manic math genius. I haven't seen that frightening look in Bale's eyes since "American Psycho", but this time he's only killing the mortgage backed securities market. Meanwhile, Brad Pitt, under- playing another disaffected former banker, Brad Rickert, helps two friends make millions while they bet against terrible investments, or "play short" the mortgage market. His backstory is revealed steadily and in a way that makes us wonder why he briefly got back into the investment "game." Even Ryan Gosling makes his mark in this star-studded cast playing the prescient "Jared Vennett." Remember, all the characters in the film are based on real people. And that is what makes it so remarkable. The other major players in the film are Bear Stearns, Morgan Stanley, and a slew of investment houses who at best ignore the coming financial crisis or at worst, colluded in its creation. From the realtors selling the mortgages, to the banks loaning at subprime, to the banks bundling the worthless packages, they were all making too much money to want to stop. This is exactly the kind of over-exuberance that occurred in the 1920s stock market crash, but few payed attention then or in 2007. "The Big Short" is a dramatized film of true events. And to make sure we understand, the actors break the fourth wall several times to tell us what part is true to the detail and what part is fictionalized to make it more dramatic. But if you are still incredulous, read the book. The events are all sadly true, and we are still paying for it. Rating: Pay full price (but you might want to see it twice.) It will take at least two viewings to catch half of what is embedded in this film. This film is entertaining, educational and relevant. Peace, Tex Shelters "},{"Title":"The rich get rich and the poor get evicted. Ain't we got Fun","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"148 out of 199 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don't know how Adam McKay made deplorable humans, blinding fear, gut-boiling outrage and gleeful shaming so much fun to watch. He brought along his bag o' laffs but planted them in such rich soil so we had to hack our way through the thick underbrush of tainted greenbacks and marked decks.Everyone's in top form. Didn't recognize Brad Pitt for awhile. Ryan Gosling funniest. Christian Bale let us feel his pain and lonely genius. Steve Carell dug deep and came up with a real mensch.Nice to see Marisa Tomei, Hamish Linklater, John Magaro, Rafe Spall, Finn Wittrock, Max Greenfield and talented others working at a solid level.I walked out of the Westwood Bruin Theater in awe and mad as hell. "},{"Title":"Four "outsider" Wall Street entities capitalize on an impending financial collapse of the US financial system.","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"94 out of 128 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reviewed by Larry Gleeson. Viewed during the AFI Filmfest 2015."The Big Short," directed by Adam McKay, based on the book by Michael Lewis, was adapted by McKay and Charles Randolph and made its world premiere Thursday, November 12, 2015 at the historic TCL Grauman's Chinese Theater as the closing night film for the latest edition of the American Film Institute's AFI FEST film festival.The film's narrative is driven by four cynical, fringe Wall Street entities disgusted with the large banking institutions' overriding greed for profits. They make the decision to capitalize on the ensuing housing market calamity and the financial meltdown of 2008 upon discovering the market frenzy is being driven by worthless collateral debt obligations.McKay chooses to inject a significant dose of humor in the early scenes to condition the audience receptors for what they are about to experience. Utilizing the Martin Scorsese docudrama style in a similar setting with "Wolf of Wall Street," a strong narrative voice dominates particular moments. Several of these deliberately break the 'Fourth Wall" in the style of "Wolfie," Jordan Belfort, as the characters, including a hilarious cameo by Selena Gomez, speak directly into the camera to explain the complexities of Wall Street finance. The overall effect adds additional humor and adds another layer in creating a sense of authenticity and truth about the film's subject matter.After a rather lengthy dizzying, yet delightful, character introduction, the film picks up pace as the drama begins to unfold. Dr. Michael Burry, an eccentric financial analyst, with complete autonomy of an investment fund, uncovers variables in his economic forecast indicating a massive housing market collapse. He informs his higher up, Lawrence Fields, played convincingly by Tracy Letts, of his discovery and creates a financial prospectus. In essence, he creates a commodity of selling short on bundled mortgages.The bankers laugh as they willingly sell Burry all the "insurance" he wants. Word quickly spreads of Burry's perceived madness in a after-work cocktail scene. With interest piqued upon overhearing the Wall Street gossip of the day, Jarred Bennett, portrayed by Ryan Gosling, scoops up the essence of Burry's move. Soon, he sells a group led by Steve Carell's all-too-human, Mark Baum to buy in.As the debacle is in full free-fall, Baum struggles with disbelief as he and his group have bet against their own umbrella entity, Morgan Stanley. The final team that has uncovered the impending financial crisis, made up of two Wall Street neophytes and veteran Ben Rickert, played by one of the film's producers, Brad Pitt, also struggles with the imploding financial system caused by corporate greed and indifference.With a mammoth cast, McKay draws on a plethora of talent in the likes of Hollywood A-listers including Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, Selena Gomez, Christian Bale, Karen Gillan Steve Carell, Marisa Tomei, Melissa Leo and Finn Wittrock. McKay and Randolph create characters with witty dialogue coupled with complementary cinematography provided by Barry Ackroyd. The soundtrack carries a similar tone of "Wolf of Wall Street," with a compilation of classic rock anthems. Nicholas Britell widely recognized for his work on Steve McQueen's "12 Years a Slave," where Britell composed on set the on-screen violin performances, work songs, dances and spiritual songs rarely misses a beat this time out. Much like another AFI FEST 2015 film, "The Clan," Argentina's official entry to the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences Best Foreign Language Category for Oscar, "The Big Short," musical score is often in juxtaposition to the the narrative and mies-en-scene adding a deeper visceral quality to the viewing experience.In its most basic essence, "The Big Short," builds on the visceral truth of Scorsese's "Wolf of Wall Street." It depicts a not-so-long-ago present where a noble ideal, making home ownership a reality for Americans, is bastardized by the indifferent market forces of capitalism. Probably not what Adam Smith had in mind when he penned his treatise, "The Wealth of Nations." Warmly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Two-Sided Look at a Great Film","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"78 out of 107 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First for newbies, the events here took place prior to the Kevin Spacey film Margin Call (2011). So the Spacey film would have depicted events near the end of this film. Both are superb movies.Back to the review. This film is very unusual in that the producers have shown fierce determination in taking a serious topic and making it as user friendly as one possibly can. Multiple techniques are used to this end and they all work well. In fact in places the film has a Monty Python quality. Why was this done? One can only assume that the producers understood the multiple studies showing that the modern city-dweller becomes uncomfortable when confronted with any facts which suggest that he or she was not paying attention when bad things were happening. After all we live in a democracy so the voters should have been more alert? Isn't that their job? The techniques mentioned attempt to appeal to our SESAME STREET side and make the whole thing as pleasant an educational experience as possible. But make no mistake, this is an educational movie.One that should be mandatory for adults. Like getting a driving test before a license. How about learning about Wall Street and the banks before you invest with them...? Carell steals the film and may finally get the attention he deserves. Great actor.Finally the message. The film suggests not only that Wall Street is corrupt but that the corruption extends to the agencies mandated to supervise Wall Street and (possibly) to Washington itself. The implicit message, conveyed in the end credits, that unless we deal with the problem at the source the symptoms will keep happening over and over and over.Duh! "},{"Title":"Right on the Money and on the Fraud","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"81 out of 120 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Big Short' is a winner. Based on Michael Lewis book of the same title, it tells the sorry story of the fraud and deceit practiced on the American people, nay, on the world by Wall Streets finance capitalism. We know the culprits: Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Lehman Bros., Morgan Stanley, Citibank, Wachovia, Crdit Suisse, UBS and on and on who invented financial instruments such as CDO, credit swaps and other fancy unintelligible names, based on mortgages, with the connivance of the credit agencies--Dow Jone, Standard and Poors and Fitch. 'The Big Short' with a light seriousness is a crash course on the duplicity of Wall Street investment bankers who earned large fees on junk bonds with triple A ratings; who bundled junk to palm off on an unsuspecting public looking for big gains by pandering to the snake oil exilir of getting rich quickly; and who feed on the niavety of the broad American have-nots with the dream of owning a home of their own. And so with some humor but much sadness are we lead through the byways of four different groups of bankers who saw the hoax for what it was and its impending implosion that would bring down the deck of cards of capitalism. And the took out bets on the market, by buying short. And they won big time! But the banks are still around, and the ratepayers footed the bailout, but at what cost! And we see this in the turmoil of the Republican party: for the discontent abroad in the US has thrown more than 25 percent of the population into poverty, loss of jobs, home, into heavy debt and no future for their children. And these banks have not reformed their ways...now they've come up with the same of gimmicks with a fancy name--something like beneficial financial tranche--as the play the same old mug's game. And like the Bourbons, t The cast is stellar--especially Christian Bale and Steve Carell and Ryan Gosling as well as the minor players. And like the Bourbons, in the words of Talleyrand, 'they learned nothing and forgot nothing', but the contempt they have for all of us. And to make the case stronger, the fools on the Supreme Court have strengthened the hands of big money and the oligopoly and the fat cats of Wall Street and the coupon clippers and the devil take the rest of us! "},{"Title":"Informative and somehow interesting...","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"61 out of 88 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all don't be fooled by other reviews. This movie is neither a crap nor a masterpiece.It has a lot of technical terms and jargon from the world of economics and despite the obvious effort to explain things (including breaking the 4th wall (i.e. talking direct to the audience while looking into the camera), and cameo appearances from movies stars like Margot Robbie and Selina Gomez) you will probably fail to understand in depth the mechanics of what is happening.The world of banks, funds, bonds, financing and the stock market will remain a mystery for most of the viewers.Big names of Hollywood star in the Big Short including Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, Christian Bale and others. They play real persons, who had an insight on the global economic crisis we probably still experiencing.As a movie it has its own style. Something of a documentary, a comedy sometimes, but essentially a drama since the crisis cost 8 million people their job and their homes.People who are impressed easily might tell you this is a "masterpiece". Believe me it isn't. But I recommend to see it. Even better at home where you can pause or rewind the movie to understand better. It is lengthy (130min) but you won't get bored. It needs some patience though especially in the beginning and not to be disappointed when terms like CDO, payouts etc. are starting to emerge. "},{"Title":"Smart Greed","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"63 out of 92 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Harry Knowles once wrote a review of Das Boot that said the movie was so well made that you'd find yourself rooting for Nazi sailors trying to sink American ships. So here. You find yourself rooting for clever "outsiders and weirdos," as one of them puts it, who saw what nobody else wanted to see -- that an immense structure of mortgage based securities was doomed to collapse because it rested on the backs of subprime borrowers who couldn't support the weight and should never have been loaned the money. We have been taught by generations of fiction to identify with characters who are outsiders and rebels. Because these guys are smart, because they are antisocial and because they were laughed at by smug fools who believed the conventional wisdom, you identify with them, and you wait anxiously for their vindication. Then you realize that their vindication means the collapse of the American economy. They were the guys on the Titanic who knew what the iceberg meant.Michael Lewis, from whose book the movie was adapted, got his training at Salomon Brothers in the mid-80s, as mortgage based securities were being invented. (There's an early shout-out to Lew Ranieri, the Salomon trader who invented them.) As anyone knows who's read Lewis's memoir of those days, Liar's Poker, the culture at Salomon was that your job was to be smarter than everybody else in the bond market, understand values better, and know what other traders were going to do before they knew it themselves. If you were smart enough, you deserved whatever you took away from somebody less smart on the other side of the trade. That's why Lewis admires his protagonists and that, despite a thick coating of moral outrage, is the heart of the movie. The guys who shorted the housing market weren't any more virtuous or less greedy than the great majority of complacent, conventionally minded bankers who believed that the trees would keep growing all the way up to the sky. They just saw more clearly and had plenty of nerve and faith in their own judgment. If they had been wrong, as shorts often are, they and their clients would have been wiped out. When they turned out right, they took the money and kept it, even if some of them felt guilty about it. I know somewhat about this area, having litigated some of the aftermath. The celebrity cameo explanations of subprime debt, collateralized debt obligations, and synthetic CDOs are not only simple but accurate -- the two involving Anthony Bourdain and Selena Gomez are downright elegant. The key concept of the credit default swap comes out nicely through the dialogue -- a chance to buy fire insurance on the house down the street just before it catches fire. There are a couple of more points that could have used the same thing, especially when people start talking about "FICO scores." It could also have been a little more clear that the eventual collapse was delayed because the smarter investment banks like Goldman finally woke up, saw it coming, unloaded their CDO inventory on investors who were still asleep, and cut their losses by buying swaps themselves. But this is a smart, entertaining telling of an outrageous true story. It deserves all the praise it has gotten, and maybe an Oscar for best adapted screenplay. If it teaches people without a financial background a little of what went on, it will be more than a momentary entertainment. But it will certainly entertain. "},{"Title":"A delightful merging of information and comedy","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"58 out of 88 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" No subject in the world is inherently interesting or uninteresting, for it's always about the communicative method or channel used to promote or inform one about the subject that is either interesting or not. Having said that, some subjects are more alienating than others, and one of those subjects is economics/finance, largely because of its dependency upon a plethora of terminology and jargon that usually cannot be adequately defined without including other terminology or jargon. Before you know it, searching the definition of something like a "Roth IRA" leads you to Google searches about embezzlement and quantitative easing in efforts to try and circumvent and define what you were originally looking for.Thankfully, Adam McKay's The Big Short assumes the audience is fairly stupid and blissfully ignorant when it comes to the interworkings of what led to the global economic crisis of 2007-2008, which saw record unemployment and catastrophic results for the usually reliable housing market. In true movie fashion, we observe the financial crash, not from an insider standpoint, where sure-fire, grade-A trades and exchanges are being made, but by a plethora of quirky outsiders trying to run away from a boulder that keeps gaining on them until it flattens them and everyone in their tracks. The only ones saved are the ones who didn't manage to fall or stumble when pushing said boulder down the hill in the first place.We initially meet a quirky hedge fund manager named Michael Burry (Christian Bale), who discovers that the U.S. housing market is based on a series of subprime loans (which, we are told by Margot Robbie as she soaks in a bubblebath whilst sipping champagne, may as well be synonymous with "s***") and is inevitably going to collapse sometime in the second quarter of 2007. Being that the housing market is often viewed as the safest bet in America, Michael begins to go around to different banks to bet against the stability and long-term security of the housing market in efforts to profit from the impending disaster.Then there's Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), a fairly small-time investor, who winds up putting in his own money to bet against the housing market, along with Mark Baum (Steve Carell), a cynical and depressed banker of many years. The two wind up discovering that the market collapse is further aided by the solicitation of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), basically collections of the aforementioned subprime loans that come packaged together and market as competent and reliable investments.Finally, there's Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock), two young-bloods anxious to break into the financial market. The inexperienced duo enlist in the help of a retired, conservative banker named Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), who helps them make decisions with their money. Unlike the other more experienced men, both Charlie and Jamie lack the kind of gusto and namesake that allows them into the offices of big name bankers. As a result, they pine for a bigger piece of the pie in a smaller way, largely by lounging in their parents' basements, hunched over their iPads.The Big Short functions as a competent, satirical anthology that breaks down the financial crisis - that is now nearly a decade old, if you can believe that - enough to be informative and entertaining. Considering this is from Adam McKay, a frequent collaborator with Will Ferrell and Funny or Die, responsible for films like Casa De Mi Padre, The Other Guys, and Step Brothers, this is a huge step in the right direction for him as a name in comedy and satire. Rather than focusing on a bargain-barrel Spanish telenovela satire or a tired, mean-spirited comedy based around who can yell the loudest, McKay sets his sights on peddling information through the most communicable form - entertainment. If you can succeed in meriting consistent laughs while teaching an audience something, you have profoundly succeeded at two things many have a difficult time accomplishing in a separate sense. That alone is worth considerable praise.While the screenplay by McKay and Charles Randolph is undoubtedly a big part at why this film succeeds, The Big Short is a true testament to brilliant comedic acting on various cylinders, as well. The men of the hour, specifically, are both Bale and Carell, seriously taking on opposite personas that they pull off to a tee. Bale plays confused and downright quirky with just the right amount of edge to make him believable rather than hopelessly incompetent or downright silly, and Carell's sporadic bouts of rage and lack of self-awareness make him all the more watchable screen presence. Other performances, like Gosling's, who serves as the infrequent, anti-hero narrator, is notable for its brash charm, in addition to Pitt, who works largely because he's even more understated and harder to define than in his latest film By the Sea.The Big Short has a lot of comedic value, but it's nonetheless a frightening depiction of where America is currently at; a depressing oligarchy, controlled and manipulated by those with money at the mercy of those without. We've seen "The Great Recession of 2007," as it's sometimes called, plunge numerous working class and poor families into further states of hopelessness, while those who helped cause and further the effects of the recession have gone on to have a road of many ups and few downs since then. McKay's eye, ear, and talent for conducting satire in a way that's simultaneously uproariously funny, in addition to having the ability to be truly upsetting, is quite marvelous and unexpected, and one can only hope that with proper recognition and compensation for his efforts on this film, he furthers down this path rather than the one he was previously on. "}][{"Title":"convoluted","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Famous writer director, Bill Wilder said if you are telling a complicated story you have to tell it in a simple way. He was right. This film wants to be funny and savvy and meaningful those are all great goals but it doesn't really achieve them. The story telling is as spastic as the camera-work is jerky, and the more it tries to make the back room dealings of corrupt banks make sense the less it does.Another key thing is that our main characters goals are to profit from the impending doom of the economy and though a few moments are supposed to make us care about them we really don't. They still come off as amoral socially odd business men out to make bank so why do we care? We don't.The attempts at hip comedy fail and are distracting--characters suddenly talking to the camera--directly to the audience, celebrity cameos trying to explain what's going on. These are just distractions. I guess they wanted an almost Michael Moore type vibe but in a more fictional type presentation. It's especially frantic on the big screen almost headache inducing during some of the 20 sec flash cut montage scenes that keep popping up.It's great the director wanted to go for a "real" movie, that he doesn't succeed is too bad. A for effort as they say does not mean he gets an A. "},{"Title":"It Was OK I Guess","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"33 out of 57 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not really an accurate portrayal of the housing bust. The movie makes it out like these few people were the only ones who knew there was a problem brewing. Uh, no, zillions of people knew as early as 2004, including me, and I'm no Einstein. What set these guys apart is that they figured out a good way to profit from the coming collapse, although it was never made exactly clear just what sort of percentage return they made.The Michael Burry character was portrayed as an annoying mental case which seemed wrong to me since I've seen videos of the guy giving various speeches and he never struck me as a nutjob except in this movie.Didn't care for the bimbo in the bathtub explaining financial jargon to the viewers. Very contrived.No laying of any blame on the people who bought houses they couldn't afford. A lot of those people were closer to idiots than victims. The victim was ME, I bailed all you dumbasses out and you'd better believe it ain't over yet! Round 2 coming up. "},{"Title":"Excellent,  ultimately bleak","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"30 out of 54 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Accomplished and informative movie from Adam McKay and his team. Special kudos to Hank Corwin for his fast but never flashy editing.Superbly acted, with a nice little part for co-producer Brad Pitt, who is always at his best in supporting roles.Looking at some of the message board postings about this movie, it's evident that the blame game for the financial meltdown of 2007/8 continues, which kind of misses the point of the movie, which is that the whole thing has started up again. Neither governments, nor banks, nor the public seem to care enough about the damage of a cycle of boom and bust to really do anything about it. They &#x96; we &#x96; smell money.Excellent film. Mostly funny. Ultimately bleak. "},{"Title":"Left wing opinion masquerading as fact","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some good acting (I especially like Bale) and interesting tricks like having actors talk to the audience and having celebrities explain complex financial deals.Unfortunately it distorts reality to match a Leftist viewpoint, and repeats ad nauseam how evil bankers are. Conveniently left out is the pressure the government put on banks. Check out the history of the Community Reinvestment Act, particularly Bill Clinton's "coup de whiskey" which forced banks to accept junk housing loans. This is why such a large percentage of mortgages failed. This was NOT mentioned in the film; how can this not be relevant?Also, it was well known that housing loans were in trouble before the crash. I remember a cover article in The Economist predicting disaster in housing around 2005. I think the bankers were thinking, yeah, it's crazy, but the government is forcing us to do it so they are going to cover these loans in the end so they are secure.At least with Michael Moore you know he is lying to you; with this movie a lot of people accept it as fact. "},{"Title":"Repetitive, preachy with little insights","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Absolutely same story of the protagonists (Brad Pitt, Christian Bale and Steve Carrell). They could have rather avoided making each scene from all three guys' perspective. It is like same scene repeated twice. The movie which pretends to be informative, is full of errors. Christian bale in one scene says loan to value is 5. This makes no sense, he probably meant loan to equity. The Jenga tower was made wrong. It was showing AAA to be most risky. Most of the speeches were cynical with little meat. The key climatic speech by Steve had no logic and only rhetoric like "I have no issues in telling you that you are wrong". But do you also have any reasons why the said person is wrong. Avoid, if you possible. Much more interesting documentaries are available on the housing crisis. "},{"Title":"A fast-paced ride filled with fascinating personalities","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When everything in your life is looking rosy, there is always someone who will tell you that your happiness is on shaky ground. Though most of the time these nay-sayers will not profit from your misfortune, such is not the case in The Big Short, Adam McKay's ("Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues") hard-hitting comedy/drama about the collapse of the housing market in 2008. Based on the book "The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine" (2010) by Michael Lewis with a screenplay by McKay and Charles Randolph ("Love and Other Drugs"), the film centers on a group of Wall Street functionaries who, despite the industry, government, and media telling them otherwise, discover that the market for bonds based on subprime mortgages is on shaky grounds and is doomed to collapse.Supported by an outstanding ensemble cast that includes triple A-rated performers like Brad Pitt ("By the Sea") Christian Bale ("Knight of Cups"), Steve Carell ("Foxcatcher"), and Ryan Gosling ("Only God Forgives"), McKay takes highly complex material and molds it into an involving narrative that follows three sets of characters, each running on parallel paths, all intent with cashing in on the system at the expense of the average citizen. The film is narrated by Ryan Gosling who explains at the beginning that our picture of bankers as stolid and conservative citizens no longer fits the reality. They have gone, he says, "from the country club to the strip club." Like Michael Burry (Bale), they even go barefoot, sport a glass eye, listen to heavy metal music and are not the least concerned with what passes for social graces. Burry examines thousands of individual mortgages and realizes that a large number of subprime housing mortgages are "junk" and will collapse sooner rather than later. With no purpose in mind other than to benefit financially from the expected bursting of the housing bubble, Burry puts over a billion dollars of his company's money into what are known as "credit default swaps," an agreement insuring the buyer in the event of a loan default, in essence, betting against not only the housing market but the American economy.These investments, disparaged by the banks, come to the attention of Jared Vennett (Gosling), a subprime mortgage bond manager who goes into business with hedge-fund manager Mark Baum (Carell). Baum, still mourning the recent suicide of his brother is, in many ways, the film's most interesting character - abrasive and bullying, yet honest with a fine-tuned BS detector. The business also proves interesting to young investors Charles Geller (John Magaro, "Carol") and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock, "The Submarine Kid"), who recruit the knowledgeable ex-banker Ben Rickert (Pitt) to use his connections to help them work directly with the banks.At one point, Baum's team investigate a housing subdivision in Florida where they find out that many homes are in foreclosure, that mortgages were bought using the name of the family dog, and a stripper owns five homes with variable rate mortgages. Baum shudders when some young brokers tell him how they have made millions by selling subprime mortgages to the poor and to unsuspecting immigrants. To add more spice to proceedings, McKay uses celebrities talking directly to the camera in order to explain the complicated terminology used by bankers to make sure the average person has no idea what's going on.Provocatively sitting in a bubble bath and drinking champagne, actress Margot Robbie ("The Wolf of Wall Street") explains the ins-and-outs of mortgage-backed securities, while TV food personality Anthony Bourdain compares an unappetizing seafood stew with banks who market bad mortgages as a triple-A rated financial product. There is also a clever demonstration at a casino gambling table using actress Selena Gomez ("Behaving Badly") to show how Credit Default Obligations (CDOs), the bundling of bad mortgages, can lead to layers and layers of speculation. The three groups of characters cross paths at the American Securities Forum in Las Vegas where it soon becomes evident that the housing market is built on fraud and the banks are massively concealing the worthlessness of their holdings.The Big Short is one of the best films of the year, a fast-paced ride filled with fascinating personalities that entertains even when it infuriates. The mood only turns dark when you realize that the stakes are bigger than winning a game of Monopoly, bigger than who was right and who was wrong. When the market collapses in 2008 sending the economy into a tailspin, it is Rickert who points out to anyone left who still cares that the consequences for real people are not the loss of stocks but the loss of their homes, their livelihood, and, in some cases, their lives. Not to worry, though, it's not personal, just business. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun ride!","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best films of the year, hands down. It was just incredible. This film takes a subject matter that could be considered boring by some, and totally draws you into it. It finds creative ways to break everything down for the audience, and makes it entertaining. I love how it's self aware, even at some points straight up going, "This isn't how it happened, but it's way more interesting this way." I love how it breaks the 4th wall, with celebrities who make cameos to explain complicated things to the audience. It's brilliant. I left this movie angry that this happened, it really gets you thinking. Adam Mckay's script is fantastic. The characters are very well written, which every one being interesting and well developed. The film effortlessly blends comedy with drama, one minute making you laugh out loud, and and then it stops you right in it's tracks. There are some really heartbreaking moments here. The acting is just phenomenal, and this is Steve Carell's best performance. It's just incredible. If he's not nominated an Oscar for this, it's robbery. It's easily better than his Foxcatcher performance. Christian Bale is great as well, playing the socially awkward Michael Burry. Brad Pitt with his limited screen time was great as well. Ryan Gosling is a scene stealer here, he's hilarious. He's really the only character not struggling here, he's making money off all of it. This movie is extremely stylish, with brilliant editing that I hope wins it an Oscar. This film does everything it can to make everything fun, and it does a great job. This is as entertaining as it is thought provoking. Adam Mckay should tackle drama more often, as he did an extraordinary job with this. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Tough to watch... for all the right reasons","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is tough to watch having lived through the housing crisis and unemployment meltdown of 2007 to present. It inspires righteous indignation and they are a lot of unlikable people that you encounter throughout the film. Don't get the wrong impression, this film is an absolute necessity on raw economics majors and even the fringe behavioral economists.We now spend a tremendous amount of time discussing the poor leadership and lack of responsibility that we encountered during that time period but nothing of such gross negligence should escape unnoticed (according to the film maybe it didn't).That it still shows that intelligent people will prosper even from the most ignorant, gross misconduct is somewhat painful to watch.Generally speaking, these are the films that don't make a lot of headway on the road to the Oscars but the cast is very stellar and is undeniable in their efforts to bring the story life from a very real point of view. Not shocking to me, Steve Carell turns in a superb effort with a highly nuanced performance overall. I wish them all the best on the road to the Oscars.Having lived through the time period, I never read the book but the last 6 to 10 minutes of the film make your stomach hurt long after the ending. If the point in cinema is to get a reaction or some sort of a dialogue started this movie is highly successful.This movie may bore the poop out of kids through the mid- to late 20s... but it is a hot weapon against the machine for anybody who is beyond that age range. Historical economic movies don't usually do well at the box office but pick up a hellacious head of steam later on if they're on target and this movie is.I recommend you catch it in theaters and have an interesting conversation on the way out to the parking lot and beyond. "},{"Title":"It is like an informative TV show episode with famous stars","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short has a vital importance in my life, because it is the first movie which I walked out during the intermission in my life. I enjoy movies such as The Wolf of Wall Street, Moneyball, but since The Big Short has no entertainment value, it is a different type of a film. What about art? Please, next! Story? There is no dramatic material, but yes, there is a story, with two words, it is economic crisis, but the film itself is too informative. It was a motion picture, but on the other hand, not exactly. As for the acting, Bale just delivers, he was incredible! Steve Carrell was appreciable, but he was not as amazing as he was in Foxcatcher. The Big Short seems a hilarious joy ride, but it is not (considering only the first half of the film) The director tries some tricks to make the movie interesting, but it does not help. The Wolf of Wall Street which has a similar tone and plot looks like a real masterpiece in comparison with The Big Short despite "Wall Street" was not a perfect or amazing film considering other Scorsese masterpieces. As for Ryan Gosling, he is a joy to watch, but his character was boring. Brad Pitt? In the first half, he appeared for three minutes or something, then in the break, I walked out and I don't know about the second half. All those confusing and senseless terms make the movie more unbearable, but it was OK. Since my cinema experience was almost zero, I just couldn't make it. I don't know how can somebody tell us this story in a different way, but if there is not, maybe this could have been a mini TV series, semi documentary, a TV show or even a "mockumentary" Sincerely I apologize from all the actors in the movie who gave their best effort, the director and all the cast members and crew. "},{"Title":"Complete boredom!","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie, while based on truth, was impossible to get interested in! I knew the circumstances, I knew the reality it was based on, I am fascinated by the prospect, and I still couldn't remain interested. It was just too deep in the forest to be able to see the trees.And you never do understand why the good guys got screwed.Imagine watching 5 brain surgeons discuss the latest subtle nuance of micro brain surgery! This was worse!My date fell asleep.Not worth the time or money!The style ruined what could have been a real eye opening movie! "}][{"Title":"9:17 seconds to Abort: Bobble Head Cam Alert","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another movie that I was really pumped to see, killed by idiots. Shaky cam, quick cuts, bobble-head cam, crash zooms, and horribly edited audio makes this flick a quick refund. In a time when serious producers, and more importantly the money behind movies have left 'the look' in the rear view, some slow learners like The Big Short, just don't get it. If you want someone to sit through or pay for a 2 hour movie, you can't edit in a way that causes nausea, vomiting, and migraines. Its not rocket science. Hollywood mastered these rules in the 1920s. If you ever wandered what a movie would look like if you mounted a camera on top of a bobble head, and asked a 3rd grader to make a movie, make sure to catch A Big Short. Its right up your alley. The keyword in this review is REFUND. I have never supported this juvenile look, and I will die before I pay a single dollar to encourage it. As home screens get bigger, the movie industry goes shakier? Hmmm, what could go wrong? Its time to go to Hollywood with pitchforks and torches. The only good news here is that most in Hollywood have taken the hint that this look is hated, passionately, by most. Those who make movies to make money won't use it. Those who want to be the misunderstood rebel, well... give us products like The Big Short. Nine minutes in, easy choice to abort and refund. The producers and editors who couldn't make the cut to get in to MTV, go to Hollywood. Whoever was involved in the funding of this movie, needs to be fired. I'd like to know who it was that thought, hey lets make a movie about banking, and market it to pre-teens. This person wins the brilliant dumb ass award. "},{"Title":"Saints don't live on Park Avenue.......","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When four outsiders saw what major banks, media and government refused to, the forthcoming global collapse of the economy, they had an idea: The Big Short. Their bold investment leads them into the dark underbelly of modern banking where they must question everyone and everything.......I must be missing something, something really fundamental about this film, because of all its accolades, great big fat thumbs up reviews, I hated the film, and smarmy characters that were 'affected' by the films narrative.But it want boring, it just made me angry, looking at these smug, consumerist bloodsuckers doing what they can for themselves, and then feel really guilty/happy/depressed about it come the end. And what makes it worse is the fact it's awards season, so we get our favourite actors being shouty, or wearing wonderful hairpieces for a little bit of recognition. Gosling here is at his most smug, being all Jerry Maguire but without any soul, and then breaking the fourth wall just to let the audience what a complete inhuman parasite he really is. And for some reason, he seems to channel Ray Liotta from Goodfellas.Then we have the forty year old virgin himself, Steve Carrell, doing his best 'shout really loud' voice, which is supposed to indicate that he is miserable, stressed, or suffering a loss, but again, he comes across more of the bloke with the big mobile phone from Trigger Happy TV. He does play the key victim/Victor in the catastrophe, but when revelations become apparent to him, he gurns within an inch of his life. And for some reason, he seems to channel Joe Pesci from Goodfellas.Pitt has no reason to be in this film, apart to prove that he can do serious, and do it good, but he was fantastic in Moneyball, and he's barely in this, looks out of place. A more seasoned actor, such as Gary Oldman, would have fitted the part better, and we wouldn't be comparing him to a 1970's TV quizmaster, like I did when ever he stumbled on screen.Bale is the saving grace here, he's actually quite endearing as the 'Eureka' part if the. Movie, but as soon as you learn about his glass eye, and his wonderfully Foghorn Leghorn like stutter, you start to feel less empathy for him, and just wish he would stop banging his drums in that 'no one understands em' type of way. What's surprising is that the rest of the cast, like Rafe Spall and Jeremy Strong are the most humanistic people in the film, and whenever they are alone on screen, I their secondary group, the film picks up slightly, rather than us having the big A-Listers doing their caricature like schtick.Heavy on propaganda, and showing too much sympathy for the wrong people, apart from the one ethnic family in a car, The Big Short is just another in a long line of Oscar baiting true stories, that show abhorrent, poisonous rich people feel sorry for themselves, because something went wrong.Why could they not have made the film from the point of view of a low income family affected by this instead.Its like someone has took The Company Men, Margin Call, Glengarry Glenross, and wig r' us, and made them sit in a room and fight.I know I'll be in the minority, but I hated it. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly Inaccurate","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A vapid, preachy and historically false movie that is based upon fiction that the uneducated and uninformed will obediently lap up. The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 added thousand upon thousands of pages of regulations that forced banks to lend money to low-income areas. Yes, forced. This is the typical liberal prescription for all the ailments of society: Throw logic and reason out the window, and use a warm and fuzzy touchy-feeling legislation to try to fix an imagined injustice. The Federal government (through the FDIC and FFIEC) required banks and mortgage companies to advertise and make super-low mortgage loans to people who should not have been buying a house in the first place. If the banks refused to take on these dangerous loans, they risked steep fines, being audited, and even being taken over by the government while that particular bank was being given (yes, given) to another bank in the area. So what did banks do? They made loans to everyone. What did that do? Made house prices SOAR. Which did what? Turned a $50,000 house into a $150,000 house.Now you have a family, who barely had any money to being with, trying to pay a $1,000 mortgage when their total income was maybe twice that. Their home gets re-assessed by the government, then their property taxes skyrocket. Why? Because the leftists and liberals said 'everyone deserves the right to own a home'.People began defaulting on loans. Missing payments. Houses were repossessed. The market crashed. "},{"Title":"Wolf wannabe. I don't get it.......and I don't mean the banking lingo!","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having seen this movie I overheard the reviews calling it hilarious and I thought they must be talking about another movie. I found not a single part of this movie amusing even thinking back on it in a comedic light. To me this movie was just an awkward cousin desperately trying to live up to the success of The Wolf of Wall Street (the bath description scene just makes this even more obvious) If you are interested in the world of finance then I'm sure there are qualities that will be informative but apart from that I don't understand who the focus audience of this movie is, apart from simply trying to pull in fans of the listed stars. Definitely give this one a miss unless you are looking for a lesson in economics with no benefit at the end. "},{"Title":"Subprime","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The finance system machinations were virtually unknown during, now that we have crashed there are a few hundred books written. They do a good job of explaining them here. They probably thought they were upholding the spirit of All the President's Men, brave exposure of a corrupt system while events are fresh in mind and people will leave the theater armed with insight to demand change. Like Redford's film, it is too close to events to do more than chronicle them. Unlike that film, it's barely a film.It's an illustrated article with a few name actors in enactments, never convincing it has any other reason to be. It does drum up anger and frustration at what a sorry affair the years leading to 2008 were and a Michael Moore kind of disgust at how the same affair is allowed to continue. Government ineptitude is confined to a regulations agency woman mooning over a Goldman Sachs exec (the type she's supposed to regulate) in a Vegas pool party in hopes of landing a more lucrative job there.So this is fine as an article I guess. But a lot of it is inane. It's the cinematic equivalent of a CDO. A triple A rated product (vetted by the ratings agency of the Oscars, a great film we're told) that is really made up of little tranches of subprime crap. You'll see this nowhere better than in the filming style, slice upon slice of noisy nothing. If you know what went wrong from elsewhere you can skip it. "},{"Title":"Over my Head","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I gotta admit, I didn't watch the Oscars but this movie was up for an award and I'm now convinced that the Oscars are probably fixed because The Big Short cannot be enjoyed by an average viewer and so I'm wondering who exactly watched this movie in order to get it nominated for best picture.I'm being completely honest when I say that the only people who can watch and understand this movie are people who are directly connected to or effected by the subject matter, which is the housing bubble that allowed people to get home loans whether they could afford a home or not and then when the rates went up, many people lost their home.The dialogue is so complicated and sophisticated that unless you are a real estate agent, a stock broker, a banker, or an employee of the housing administration, OR someone that lost their home, you will not understand this movie because it's a bunch of numbers and real estate jargon and very fast paced and hard to follow !The all- star cast is probably what got this movie nominated for an Oscar but the movie itself is not for the average Joe. "},{"Title":"The Big Short!","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow! I can't remember the last time I watched a movie that entertained the way that The Big Short managed to. Somehow while sitting there I learned a 1,000 things I had no clue happened during the housing market collapse of 08, while laughing out load every 15 minutes and feeling like I was going to throw up during others. I love movies where the underdog wins or in this case is right. I love movies where the underdog gets rich even more. I don't know that I can say that any of those types of movies have ever taught me anything important about recent history. Erin Brockovich might be the last one that even came close and that story did not impact the world the way the housing market collapse did. The acting was amazing! Ryan Gosling and Christian Bale hit it out of the park. Steve Carell who I have never been able to see as anyone other than Michael from the office gave the best performance of his life. Overall this was a stroke of genius in casting. The only criticism I can give would have to be with the shaky, unfocused single camera approach that they took with shooting this film. It is just not my cup of tea. It looks cheap and annoys me. Sure this was supposed to be a documentary style type of a thing where the characters break the fourth wall every chance they are given, but still. I hate it and I always will. You can thank Cloverfield for that. Overall this was a great way to kick off 2016 at the movies. Great acting, and a great story telling when the story should have been complicated and boring. Let's call it 5 stars. https://moviesbooksandeverythingnice.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"A thorough analysis of the 2008 financial collapse with an oxymoronic title","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One would think that in the absolute least it would be extremely difficult to make an intriguing movie about the housing market and the US banking system and the greedy people who invest and gamble with our country's future... while keeping a cyber-age audience entertained, but The Big Short not only manages to accomplish that goal but does it excellently. The major drawback to this film is that the pace is too fast for an average viewer to sort out who's who from a host of actors, each of whom portrays a key player in a complex intertwined financial system. That being said, this film targets the painful nerve of every American, a nerve that careens through their job security, affecting their monetary value and terminates in the core of their family's welfare: the place they cherish and call their home, for every man's home is his "castle" and whoever messes with a man's castle, is messing with the man's family. The repressed anger of the American people over the 2008 crises and the memories of the financial loss they have endured will be inflated as they watch this film and then "pricked" by the irritating, aggravating and infuriating outcome. Those who plan to watch it should plan on watching it twice and plan to clench a lead bullet between the back teeth. "},{"Title":"Well told true story","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a person who understands how this housing bubble burst (not affected personally) - this is a well told story. The acting is great - the inserts of a chef explaining things, and a pop star - very interesting tactic. The individual characters are all well acted and developed. Many people do not get that the banks play games with the average person - as it says at the end of the movie - they just use different words for their products. The main focus of the bank is to make money - not help the consumer and this was rampant in the 90's. People need a place to live - do not put down your income-or lack of. Leave some of the questions blank - no one will care by the time it gets passed off and passed off and passed off and approved. ARM's - to me an automatic money maker for the mortgage holder and not the homeowner - oh that is right the mortgage holder owns the home. This is a movie that more people should see - the acting is great - the story is told well and all need to watch what happens in the future. "},{"Title":"Gripping and original - one of the films of the year so far","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is not an easy film to watch on a number of levels. At a basic level, and speaking as a pretty well-educated film-goer, it requires quite considerable concentration to keep up with the financial jargon thrown at you. At a sociological level, the fraud and corruption that were endemic within the venerable institutions portrayed is just unbelievable. And at a personal level, as someone who lost big time when a property deal in Florida went South, some of the scenes are physically painful. But I was lucky in comparison: my loss was 'just' money. Many millions of Americans and then, through the global recession, many millions more around the world lost their jobs and their homes through the ensuing collapse. And for many, that led to loss of life.It's 2005 and Christian Bale plays Dr Michael Burry, a character whose manner suggests he might be high on the autistic scale. Burry appears to be solely in the driving seat of a huge investment fund - in itself, a surprising fact. Burry sees what no one else has seen - that the whole of the US mortgage market is built on a lie; a lie that the banks and even the supposedly independent financial ratings companies are complicit in for their own short-term gains. Burry is effectively the small boy laughing at the emperor's new clothes: but going beyond that, he bets all of his company's investments on that radical view.We also follow two parallel but unconnected groups chasing the same bet after hearing of Burry's ideas: struggling broker Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling) brings the proposition to a team led by Mark Baum (Steve Carell). Baum is a disillusioned and self-righteous professional struggling with his own personal tragedy. On investigating the depth of the crisis, Baum progresses through incredulity to increasing anger; and Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) are two up-and-coming youngsters who team with grizzled and retired veteran trader Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) to help leverage their limited funds into the game.The chips are down and as the financial world turns increasingly toxic there are two questions to answer: a) who blinks first between the serried ranks of the institutions, desperate to maintain the status quo, and the maverick brokers; and b) when the music stops, will there actually be any pot left to win? The director is Adam McKay ("Anchorman", "The Other Guys") and his style is both quirky and brilliant - well deserving of his place among the Oscar contenders. We keep breaking away from the action to get insightful explanations from some surprising people (some who make it extremely difficult to concentrate on the message!). The fourth wall is constantly being broken to comic effect, particularly by Gosling who is a pseudo-narrator at times. This is a dangerous ploy for a movie, as this type of narration can be highly irritating to an audience (e.g. as in "Joy" and "Jersey Boys"), but here it works brilliantly. Clever interweaving of newsreel and media footage, and some extremely sharp editing (a well deserved Oscar nomination for Hank Corwin) add to the magic.The script by Adam McKay and Charles Randolph (gaining another Oscar nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay) makes an impossibly complex concept more accessible without resorting to Sorkin-levels of verbosity.Christian Bale, surely one of the most unpredictable and charismatic actors today, is also in contention for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar, but that belies the stupidity of these categories: who is the "Lead" actor in a film like this? Outside of that debate this is a film which, as for "Spotlight", could be considered for an award for "ensemble cast". In a movie with great cameos from the likes of Melissa Leo, Karen Gillan ("Dr Who") and Marisa Tomei, it is Steve Carrell in particular who stands out as a dramatic force, following up the impact he made in last year's "Foxcatcher".An extremely entertaining, yet intellectually demanding film, this is a one deserving of multiple watches to help unpeel the onion of understanding. The year is yet young, but this rates as one of my films of the year so far.(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this review. Thanks). "}][{"Title":"I Don't Get It","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why is this movie so critically acclaimed? Why is it winning so many awards? I'm baffled. It's categorized as a comedy, and I don't understand why. Is it a black comedy? When the actors break the fourth wall, turn to the camera and have to explain why what's happening in the scene is so outrageous... is that supposed to be funny? For the average movie-goer I think it will be an even more boring experience than it was for me. I'm a finance professional, so I already have some understanding of the jargon. I've also watched documentaries about the mortgage collapse (which were far superior to this), so this topic was not new to me. For someone without this background watching this movie must feel like being forced to sit and audit a college course in finance. Why is Christian Bale winning Best Actor awards for his performance? He plays a one-note socially awkward, introverted shut-in. How hard is that? There was no range or depth to his role. If you were working in the extended market of mortgage-backed securities during this time, you might find the irony played out on the screen, or the cartoonish characterizations of some of the key players amusing, but for the wider general audience, I don't get how they could be entertained by it. Maybe it's because Adam McKay's brand of humor does not resonate with me. I didn't think the Anchorman movies were funny, I thought they were dumb. Perhaps his target audience for this film is the same as for those and they will appreciate this type of "humor". "},{"Title":"Pretty dull","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"21 out of 39 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maybe I just don't get it or maybe you have to be in the banking industry to care but it's very boring. It's literally just guys talking to each other and about money the entire length of the film- like a radio talk show. The acting is fine and it's not poorly done at all- it's just basically nothing to see. I kept waiting for something to kick in- story, characters- something! I hate to be a snob about it but honestly I just can't imagine how a film like this actually gets made. I mean what was the inspiration?? Who is the intended demographic?? Again, maybe it's just me and I'm hung up on films with action, interesting characters and a colorful story and setting, but I can't even squeeze hard and push out something cool to say about this film. I really wish I could. It's like expecting a rock concert and getting to read a newspaper instead. "},{"Title":"The Jail Cells Remain Empty","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Since there are already over 300 reviews on the site, I'll just state my own perspective on the film without going into much plot detail, This movie takes a different approach to the 2008 world financial crisis, by focusing in part on the few investors who studied and understood the fraud that was going on in the banking industry regarding the packaging and selling of highly risky subprime mortgages, that were often receiving AAA ratings from Wall Street friendly rating agencies. Thus, these few investors took huge short positions (or betting the market would eventually crash on these obligations), while being laughed at by greedy and sheep-like bankers, until their smiles were wiped away when the markets did indeed crash.There's a number of stalwarts of the screen here, such as Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, and Brad Pitt, with terrific performances by the supporting cast, too numerous to mention. The film can get quite technical, at times, even for someone like myself who used to work in investment banking at one point in my life, but I don't think it should take away from one's enjoyment of the movie.All in all, knowing what went on and that only 1 banker ever went to jail for all the misdeeds,, and not even in the U.S., can make one highly nauseous and aggravated. Is it any wonder that there remains so much anger in the public towards what's going on in our financial and political systems. As mentioned in the movie, there is again a push to deregulate the banking system. I'm expecting Rod Serling to appear at any moment and tell us we're all in The Twilight Zone. "},{"Title":"The Big Mess","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay. So why is 'The Big Short' an average film?It's messy. Tonally, it's all over the place, featuring inconsistent uses of fourth wall breaks, random advertisements and clips scattered throughout, and sitting up in the director's chair, we have Adam McKay. The director of Anchorman (along with many other Ferrell-starring comedy vehicles), was not the right man to tell this story. Don't get me wrong, the subject matter is very interesting and necessary, adapted from the 2010 book of the same name which focuses on the financial crisis that hit in '07; but with such an important story to tell, was McKay the right man for the job? I'll let you decide. Unfortunately, I feel though his vision is scattered and the final product is rather uneven. The Best Director Oscar nomination is certainly surprising.It's the inconsistencies and lack of attention to the small details that bothered me. The film has an excellent soundtrack, in terms of song choices, but the way 50% of the songs are used, feels very poorly applied. Jarring cuts, odd mixing levels, etc. The same goes for the fourth wall breaks. We meet Jared Vennett (played by Ryan Gosling, who is excellent here) within the first few moments of the film, who essentially introduces the subject matter to us. It's okay, I can buy that, it's sort of reminiscent of Leo's discussions with the camera in The Wolf of Wall Street. But the fourth wall breaks that feel totally out of place, were (to name a few) the cut to Margot Robbie in the bubble bath, Selena Gomez gambling, even the ones between various supporting cast members. It took me out of the film for sure, I don't know about you. Gosling does get the most frequent asides though, which I was okay with. He certainly has a Leo-esque style about him.So, it's 2005. Bare foot, shorts sporting Dr. Mike Burry (Christian Bale) has realised that the American housing market is very unstable, as it's built upon subprime loans that are providing fewer returns. In the film's terms, the market is built upon a bubble that he predicts will 'burst' within the next couple of years. Burry decides to bet against the housing market, creating a credit default swap (CDS) market which the banks gleefully accept, since they genuinely believe that there's no way in hell that the collapse will occur.It's Burry's actions that are the catalyst for those of the film's other major players. Vennett, previously mentioned above, hears of Burry's unusual actions and comes to the realisation that he is absolutely right. The market is becoming increasingly unstable and so as Vennett jumps on board Burry's train of thought, Mark Baum (Steve Carrell) by accident hears of his actions and... yeah, you're getting the picture. Baum joins Vennett, hoping to profit from the CDS's as the result of the economy's collapse.Other players include young nave investors Charlie and Jamie (John Magaro and Finn Wittrock), who come across one of Vennett's papers; and Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) a retired banker, and old friend of Jamie's, who is one of the few figures who have a genuine fear concerning the losses of jobs and homes as a result of the eminent bubble burst.I'll say it again, the information is important, the subject matter is brilliant, but at times, the way McKay and Randolph's screenplay "dumbs-things-down" for it's audience is totally ridiculous. And even then, watching a nude bathing Margot Robbie is enough to completely distract so you don't know what the hell she's talking about. Other points in the film throw so much financial jargon at you, it's hard to keep up, unless you go home from the cinema and try to google everything before you forget what you heard. If you can completely understand the concept of CDO's (basically "re-packaged poor loans"), after one viewing of this film, then I take my hat off to you.This review makes it sound like I hated the film, I realise that, but there is a lot to like here. Gosling's performance (and in particular the workplace bathroom scene) deserves praise. The honest human empathy and fear of the future reality expressed by Pitt certainly restored my faith in what seemed to be a world of greed and ease associated with turning a blind eye. Rickert states "If we're right, people lose homes. People lose jobs. People lose retirement savings, people lose pensions. You know what I hate about f_cking banking? It reduces people to numbers. Here's a number - every 1% unemployment goes up, 40,000 people die, did you know that?".But I can't seem to shake how disjointed the whole film is. The poor music cuts, the uneven direction, the (overrated) dodgy editing; I genuinely wish I liked it more than I did, because it's got the appeal, but sadly, falls short on both style and occasionally, substance. "},{"Title":"You don't want to hear it, but you have to","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am rating this movie a full 10 because there was nothing wrong with it at all. It has a lot of technical jargon, but they explain the relevant stuff - even breaking the fourth wall - so that anyone can understand what they are talking about. And what they are talking about is that the entire world economy is a big giant self serving fraud.The amazing cast of the film is not only great at acting, but clearly motivated by the subject of the movie. People like Steve Carell that are acting all seriously and angry, people like Christian Bale playing the role of a semi-autistic number cruncher, people like Brad Pitt and Ryan Gosling in secondary roles with a lot of - basically - cameos from actors that clearly want to make a statement.The statement is at the end, when one banker from Swiss is the only one who is put in jail, while people are bailing out the banks that started and continued this disgusting system, while losing their jobs and houses in the process.But more than that, I loved the way the movie was created. It is a well done movie, from script to editing and soundtrack. I loved the scene where for dramatic purposes two guys find a very important information on the ground, discarded and ignored, then one turns to the screen and says "it didn't actually happen like this, but like that" and then they go on.Watch it. You will not understand most of what they are talking about, but it is not necessary. You will not want to hear it, because it sounds fantastic, but it is real. Unfortunately, you also have nothing you can do about it. "},{"Title":"The scariest non-horror movie ever!","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Paramount Pictures' The Big Short, based on the best selling novel by Michael Lewis, is the star- studded film that meticulously recreates the course of events that led to the worst financial crisis to hit the United States, and by extension the world, since the Great Depression. It isn't often that when I leave a movie that I instantly feel like I need to watch it again, but this is definitely one of them! Furthermore, this is a fantastic film to show any business or financial class on the graduate level. Brilliantly casted and directed, this film will have your utmost attention the entire time. In fact, when it's over, you will most likely want it to go on. Screenwriters Adam McKay (also the director) and Charles Randolph create a movie with such realism and candor that you will be able to truly understand the foundational problems that aided in creating the mortgage-backed security crisis which led to the housing meltdown and the loss of millions of jobs. The scariest part is, at the end of the movie, you will read that starting in 2015 that big banks are once again engaging in similar behaviors under a new name. The utter greed, absurdity, and naivety on display in this movie will leave you astounded.The Bg Short is a biographical documentary-like drama that goes behind the headlines and years before the height of the financial crisis (now referred to as the Great Recession) and reveals the actions of big banks and front-line mortgage officers alike that contributed and eventually causes the housing meltdown. After one major hedge fund investor discovers that the big banks are buying up and selling bad mortgages, he takes actions that create a ripple effect amongst a small group of hedge fund financial investors that begin to sound the alarm that big banks refused to listen and believe. Against the odds, this small group of investors attempt to warn the big banks that the US financial system, and by extension the world, is in grave danger. This film follows several key players in this movement and sheds light on what was really happening behind closed doors.If you want to gain a better understanding of what caused the housing meltdown and financial crisis, then plan to see this movie. Or, if you are just looking for a fantastic movie with suspense, mystery, and action, then plant see this movie. It is of no surprise as to how this movie has received Oscar nominations. The phenomenal cast brought these recent historical figures to life in only a way that a cinematic story can do. Full of intellectual action, this movie successfully delivers a powerful message with a brilliant story. Many times, the best stories are true ones, and it doesn't really get any truer or more visceral than this one. Not often can a movie capture a historic series of events with such accuracy whilst delivering a cinematic experience. More than a documentary, this film possesses a brilliant approach to the visual storytelling of a real modern-day crisis that isn't that far removed from today.The combination of mostly an objective perspective with a healthy helping of subjective points-of- view makes this a unique experience. Watching this movie, I couldn't help but imagine that t almost plays out as something fabricated, made up for a gripping and dynamic plot; but the fact of the matter is that this really happened. Moreover, if the big banks continue in their ways and not learn from their mistakes, it could happen again. Although this is definitely a visually driven story, there are times that there is commentary or further information in the form of text or actors breaking the fourth wall. Ordinarily, I don't typically like moves where the characters speak directly to the camera or audience, but the manner run which the asides were written into this movie worked extremely well.I will keep this review short because I definitely want to encourage people who want to gain a better understanding of the financial crisis to see this movie and experience it for themselves. You will definitely not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Best Film of the Year","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" An absolutely brilliant adaptation of Michael Lewis' novel. I can't say enough about this film. I've watched it countless times and I still get something from it each time. The script, the cinematography, the casting - all brilliant. Steve Carell is superb as Mark Baum and Christian Bale is at the top of his game. He's never been better. Adam McKay has crafted a masterpiece for the ages. He clearly possesses a brilliant mind. What astonishes me is that he wastes his considerable talents on dreck like "Anchorman" and "Talladega Nights" and "Step Brothers." Why? I mean, WHY?!?!?! It just don't add up! The man should stick to smart and insightful films like "The Big Short" and leave the juvenile, unfunny comedies to Kevin Smith and Seth Rogan. "},{"Title":"Gem!","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow! BEST BEST BEST BEST movie in Years!!! Not only does this movie convey a real message about our truly decadent times. But it is MASTERIOUSLY done! Who's the DIRECTOR?????? He's AMAZING!!!Christian BALE, Ladies and Gentlemen, when will this man receive an Oscar for Best Actor?!!!!!!! Everything, every little thing he does is in the character. It is deep inside. Feels so right, so true! When he falsely laughs to reassure his wife while heavily breathing from playing drums! exactly how you would do if you were caught in a tantrum and didn't want your loved one to worry.STEVE CARELL! Fantastic! This man is also heading for the Oscars&#x85; In character, totally! You can see it in his eyes, in his whole being. Beautiful! MELISSA LEO!!! You must see her decay!And its' not only the big names that are amazing! It's all the scenes, all the details, all the supporting actors : watch with full attention the scenes where there are many actors...Yet, it is never about the performance. It is always about the message. The performance serves the message.Now the editing, the score! So well chosen! The angles, the cuts and returns!!You know, sometimes in a movie, some effects look like there just for us to enjoy! But not here. Again it is always about the message. When the camera slows down to show us all the protagonists leaving Vegas, it is not to say: "look!, I am a great cameraman, I can do that", no, instead it gives us time to take a good look at the tragedy that is occurring, and to reflect on this as some of the protagonists also do while leaving when others just show an unchanged GREED in them. Too bad some acting bothered me. I really was annoyed by Gosling's hairdo! atrocious, and his tan, which looked like painting. Also his acting... Too closed. I almost felt something at one point of his last scene, but it was for like half a second. Maybe the director wanted to show a banker like that... Dunno. And Marisa Tomei... Usually I like her. But here her actions as the character didn't seem real. Maybe because I would have not reacted as her if my husband finally talked about his terrible burden... Except for these two, I'm telling you, it is a to watch movie. And I hope it encourages us to BE MORE AWARE OF THE WORLD WE'RE IN AND HOW OUR GREED AFFECTS ALL. Peace.PS : Lastly, frankly, I'm usually not into comparing two movies. Simply because it is in a way impossible. But this time, this movie really reminded me of the Wolf of Wall Street as these two movies share the same core message. But it felt as if this movie succeeded where the Wolf of Wall Street did not. Let me explain : WWS was beautiful and funny, perfectly filmed, but too perfectly, too beautiful, too controlled, for us to feel the pain. It's like a beautiful painting that blows your mind with all its vivid colors and marvelous shapes : you lose the message. Also in WWS you can see Leonardo Di Caprio, who I have real affection for, always trying to make his best performance as an individual. You see the actor. Not just the character. And maybe the wonderful Martin Scorsese is trying too hard too... Plus there was some default in his editing... I'm telling you here is the Gem! "},{"Title":"A great explanation of the mechanics of the financial crisis of 2007/08","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is best seen as an explanation of how the financial markets crashed in 2007/2008. It is very well done, and not just because it's Margot Robbie doing (some of the) explanation in a bubble-bath.Other than that, it is funny at times, tries to make you care about some of the characters (like Steve Carrel's character and his relationships with his wife and brother), but, actually, all that is for its main purpose - the explanation. A dull explanation of all of this, with some charts, would not have done a good job. It would feel dry and detached. I actually tried doing the "required" reading on this a few years ago and just gave up - for someone not in the financial industry, it's just way too much unknowns to grasp in a short time.It is also nice that it doesn't try to be preachy or condemning. Things are as they are. If you learn that you shouldn't trust your banker and/or financial adviser just because they wear nice suits, have great hair and a good education, that's good. But, if you don't, that's fine too. Also, about your banker, she's just trying to make a living, she didn't invent the system. She should find some honest work instead, though. "},{"Title":"A Ton (and I mean A TON) of Jargon","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, people with knowledge about economics and loans will understand this film better than most. Most will spend the film trying to wrap their heads around what is being said. This is the exact reason there are moments in the film which break the fourth wall - specific celebrities are depicted (as themselves) giving oversimplified analogies directly to the audience to help them along the way. Thanks for the help, but it would be nice to be able to understand what is said in the first place than to be patted on the back by the filmmakers who are saying "it's okay, we know you're trying your best but we're here to help."In the sense that the economic jargon is complex the film is not necessarily bad, but it fails to be entertaining. What IS entertaining is the acting. All good performances here. Christian Bale plays a manic with subtle giveaways such as his distracted persona and his jamming out to music and nonchalant failure to wear shoes in the office. It's hard to say whether his manic depiction of Michael Burry is accurate, but it makes sense and is well-done since manic is very close to genius sometimes, which is exactly what Burry proves to be in this film. Bale can definitely play unstable from viewing previous performances in American Psycho and The Fighter, and he does it again here. Ryan Gosling adds personality to the film, not falling short when portraying a self-righteous jerk whose narration is not that different than DiCaprio's narration in The Wolf of Wall Street. Steve Carell is great in a dramatic role once again after proving his dramatic ability in roles in Little Miss Sunshine and Foxcathcer. Brad Pitt is okay - we don't really get to see much of him in the film, but he plays his character as it was meant to be played. There is a good moment when his character acts as a moral voice of reason, and that is probably the most emotional moment for him in the film and it is very quick.Discussing The Big Short after viewing it is a recommendation - it might help to clarify that the story in general is understandable and deals with good questions about morality versus greed. However, when a film goes over the heads of the audience as much as this film did, it fails to be entertaining. This is a good film but it lacks entertainment - especially from a known comedic director.2.0/4.0 "}][{"Title":"The most boring movie for 2015","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Under zero emotions! The story supposed to be great but it wasn't. That drama was not a drama but just some pieces of stories that this director tried to joined by force and to give a meaning during its way. Most of the biggest troubles was that camera that never stopped shaking and zooming in and out and moving up and down with no sense even in the most quiet portrait. There is no need to play with moving camera in senseless way to make the story more dramatic. Big disappointing even in some characters there. Not professional. Pretending! I would ask to this director to give me back the time i spent to watch his bullshit and maybe to tell to him how he can do this movie in more positive way. "},{"Title":"The Big Fail","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I will be quite blunt. And very short. Avoid this item (I would not call it a movie) at any cost! First of all, this is not a feature film. There is a story but annoyingly not adapted through a 'movie screenplay'. Too bad Randolph! I'd rather call it a hybrid of a feature and a documentary but a badly mutilated cloning job by Adam McKay. Acting is generally OK, but Burry's character is really annoying. Worst is its infuriatingly hopelessly portrayed by Bale. Pitt is not worth his salt and Steve Carell is the only one worth mentioning. The main problem with this item is the absence of electrifying and captivating connection that is really needed in each frame of the movie on one of the biggest financial scams of our time. Just lame! "},{"Title":"Truth is like poetry, and most people hate poetry.","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There have been a few runs at explaining why the financial meltdown occurred. No-one thought to frame an event like this with humour, taking down the bean-counting barriers and offering a crash-course in greed, power and money, (in other words, banking).The stars were out, in terms of the cast and the cameo's, infuriating some and breaking up the technical jargon for others. A brief cut to Margot Robbie to explain technical details, was undeniably the lowest point, a sort of try-hard tactic, which left the audience feeling a little patronised. Combating this however, was Steve Carell, with quite a moving performance - grounding the dark humour, and reminding us how terrible the situation became when millions lost their jobs, homes and livelihoods.Following various parties, from budding entrepreneurs, to high-level financial traders - people who foresaw the crash, and then bet against the US markets. Creating a hilarious, but disturbing look at one of the worst things to happen in recent history. "},{"Title":"Intense dramatic comedy","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" is a unique perspective of the 2008 financial crisis in the USA expressed from the point of view of the few people who actually predicted the crash. This film presents an alternate and unfamiliar view of a tragic event that all Americans experienced. Christian Bale, Steve Carrell, Ryan Gosling, and Brad Pitt make the seemingly insane decision to bet against the housing market because they figure out that it is crumbling and is so corrupt. Ryan Gosling narrators how this discovery was made and how these few people were able to profit off of a devastating event for so many people. The language in this film is advanced and includes many complicated business acronyms. However to ensure that everyone could understand and relate to the film the director, Adam McKay creates comic relief. When a new complicated concept was introduced the camera cuts to a celebrity (Margot Robbie, Selena Gomez etc.) who then explains the concept in simpler terms. Also Ryan Gosling's narration provides comic relief amidst the confusing and complicated plot. I believe that this film is not only creative and intriguing, more importantly it is the untold story of the corrupt economy in our country. This film forces viewers to become more critical and careful in their financial decisions. "},{"Title":"Interesting, fun, and depressing","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" from 2015 is another look at the big crash of 2006- 2007 which wrecked the housing market, the bank, brokerage firms, and lots and lots of people.There were, in this true story, a few investors who realized that the mortgage-backed securities business was a big fraud with nothing underneath it, and they bet against it. But they didn't understand how deep the corruption of the banks went and just how bad the crash was going to be for everyone.The film stars Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, Melissa Leo, Marisa Tomei, and Brad Pitt with some interesting guests, including Chef Bourdain and Selena Gomez, brought in to explain aspects of the mortgage-backed securities. I've seen so many different films and documentaries about the crash, but this makes the story really understandable.The director, Adam McKay, has an excellent handle on what could have been a confusing, muddled film. He not only gives us some excellent characters but a clear understanding of the situation, rendering it comical. Like Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room documentary, the things the SEC, brokers, etc., are willing to overlook or simply not check because of greed is outrageous. One thing that bugged me - the character Christian Bale plays, Dr. Michael Burry, one of the people that realized the fraud, has a "glass eye." Why must people continue to use that term? Does anyone realize how heavy a glass eye is? Artificial eyes have been made of a light acrylic for decades, yet this term is constantly used.I am not sure how they did it, but the same thing was done in "Valkyrie" -- somehow at certain angles, the artificiality is indicated with a slightly droopy upper lid or a lack of energy - remarkable. Also, the way it would occasionally bother Bale was subtle but accurate.Standouts in the film, besides Bale, are Pitt as an ex-broker who helps a new firm, Steve Carell as an outspoken broker, and Melissa Leo in a small but effective role as someone working for the SEC, and Hamish Linklater as Porter Collins, one of the men interviewing brokers and clients, trying to get some answers.This is such a disturbing story, all the more horrible because of its ramifications and the fact that absolutely nothing was done about it. The banks were bailed out and paid big bonuses with the money. No one went to prison, any reform was stopped -- because the corporations are the ones who call the shots. The big question asked here by several brokers of the banks is, how are you screwing us? Good question. And they're still doing it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie ! Economical crisis explained for all","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went in with high expectations and I was nicely surprised. This movie uses a lot of financial terms that are explained. The cast is amazing, funny but also angry, loved loved loved them. The movie presents such a tough subject that many people do not know nor understand very well. The subject is presented through different angles from different perspectives. A lot of viewers failed to see through the numbers, down to the core of the movie's subject. Brad Pitt makes a remarkable appearance, together with Ryan Gosling and my favorite Steve Carell. The whole movie is made remarkable by its actors and the heaviness of its subject. Do yourself a favor and go watch this very informative movie and pay extra attention to the ending statement, it's scary!!! "},{"Title":"People Always Pay Their Mortgages","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is a good if not entirely successful attempt to explain the economic collapse of the housing market. Banks lend money to people for mortgages, issue bonds based on the money that gets paid like clock work from hard working people who pay their mortgages to own their own home. I remember in the late 80s my mom paid off the final installment on a house my parents bought in 1955.But my parents weren't deadbeats and banks started getting looser and looser with easy credit. They began issuing what was called sub prime loans which is below the interest market rate. Those did go more and more to deadbeats and there's one great scene where a well proportioned woman tells us exactly what sub prime is and to run whenever you hear the words mentioned.Several people in the brokerage and the banking businesses got a scent of what was to happen to the various brokerage houses and the investment portfolios that had those bonds. People lost billions and that is no exaggeration. Like in the Stock Market crash of 1929 people saw that coming and sold out as well. A few got rich and even richer like Joseph P. Kennedy then. Most went bust.Some of the people who got the bad odor from the banks were people played by folks like Christian Bale, Steve Carrell, Ryan Gosling, John Magaro, Finn Wittrock, and Brad Pitt who was in the investing game and has an interesting role as one who is now living a modified hippie lifestyle. Magaro and Wittrock have their own small brokerage firm and Pitt gives them some sage advice.I liked Carrell the best because he has the best scenes in the film, when he personally investigates who some of those mortgages have been issued to. His scene with the stripper is priceless.It might help to have a business background, but The Big Short breaks it down for you as simply as possible. I might not have understood all the nuances, but I was entertained. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, and Important, Movie","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know a lot of people take issue with Hollywood, but without them, common, everyday, people like me would never see a movie like this that explains how so many where robbed and stolen from in America.Normal people simply do not have the insight, or time, to follow what's going on in places like Wall Street. This is why it's important for our government to oversee and audit activities happening in places that can affect everyone. Elizabeth Warren is a HERO for taking on Wall Street. We need more people like her.This movie tells a story of greed. A story of how a few felt it was more important to become rich than think about the security and safety of thousands. America should never again turn a blind eye to such activity. We should learn from our mistakes and put in place laws and security measures to prevent anything like this from ever happening again. To do this, we need to remove money from politics so politicians we elect can do what they are elected to do: protect the people that elected them.This is a fantastic, and important, movie. Everyone should watch this. "},{"Title":"Good "1 Time Watch" kind of movie","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very good movie. Describes everything to do with the housing crash in 2007/2008 really well. I like how they took an extremely boring topic (banking and real-estate)and made an actually interesting movie.There are a lot of big time actors in this movie, but it wasn't overwhelming. I've seen too many movies before that put far too many A list celebrities, in 2 hours, fighting over screen time for the "star" role. It ends up killing the movie. This one however, did a very nice job including all of them just the right amount.The only issue I have with this film, is what my summary says. Its a one time watch. I'd rope it together with a movie like "Castaway". Good movie. Glad you watched it. Entertaining the 1st time, but not something you could watch over and over again. Especially due to the lack of suspense. After the 1st 15 min of the movie, you already know what's going to happen the rest of the movie.But, if you're looking for a good movie to pass the time, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A good movie for a complicated story.","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is a well acted movie where the character driven sub stories meld perfectly into the main story of the mortgage fraud of the U S housing market. Pitt's, Bale's, and Goseling's performances were believable money people. Pitt is an introvert whose quirks make the money man see the truth. Bale is an exesentialistic thinker who is ahead of the curve for market trends, Goseling is a slick Wall Street salesman. Surprisingly, Carrell stole the show as the hyper, (every one of the these movie characters would be regrettably labelled with a disability instead of a gift by today's mainstream society) brutally honest moral conscience of The Big Short. What The Big Short does well is merge the sub stories into explaining the complexities of the mortgage crisis. The biggest fraud in the history of the U S. Investors were fraudulently buying crap, bundled mortgages, which creates false demand and price increases in the housing market. As with all realists , ridicule and attacks follow until proved right. What hits most is when Carrell's character wallows in disbelief over the corruption as the housing market crashes, He refuses to sell his shares wanting to be proved wrong. He was hoping he was wrong. Seven out of ten stars. Time well spent. "}][{"Title":"More Like a Really Dramatic Documentary","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, I had no idea that Adam McKay could make anything but a Will Ferrell movie. He did a great job of directing The Big Short and deserves a lot of recognition for it. The Big Short was educational to me since I am young enough to not have fully understood how this event took place. I thought the material would be over my head for some parts, but McKay found a funny and unique way to explain the difficult subject matter. Overall, I was able to keep track of what was happening.The acting was one of the better casts of the year, with great performances from Steve Carell and Christian Bale. Bale had one of my favorite performances of the year, but I may be biased since he is one of my favorite actors. The cast was extremely believable and fit the mood.By now everyone knows the basics of the story. The Big short will leave you feeling confused and angry about how everything went down. The little guy suffers, while the rich don't get hurt. If anything, The Big Short did a remarkable job of making people angry that this event actually happened. This is a good movie, but not a great movie. I liked how everything was put together in all, but the subject matter within the overall story can be boring. I found myself lacking some attention because of how detailed and confusing the small details were presented. The Big Short is a good movie that deserves a watch; 7/10. "},{"Title":"A comedy with its middle finger pointed straight at Wall Street","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The big short starts off at a frenetic pace, but writer director Adam McKay eases you into this world of sleaze and thievery run by people that make a living off of making the entire world think that only they can do what they do. Using ingenious celebrity cameos, the audience gets to witness firsthand the fraud, stupidity, and ignorance that led to the 2008 Wall Street crash. Movies like Wall Street and the wolf of Wall Street used the frenetic and confusing nature of the financial world to keep the audience at an arms length, to show how truly brilliant these thieves are. The big short reverses that trend and exposes that the only brilliance in Wall Street is the ability to bury the truth in mountains and mountains of bullshit. The movie depicts the people that were able to see through this mountain, dig it out, and come across the hidden sewage beneath it. The performances are brilliant, each actor making his or her mark on a situation so fraught with moral hypocrisy. Steve Carnell and Christian bale are the standouts here, the former as an angry investor who wants nothing but the taste of corporate blood his mouth, but understands that he and a few others will be the only people in America to benefit from the situation. Christian bale stars as the troubled but brilliant Michael burry who craves attention for making such a grind breaking discovery. Other impressive performances include Ryan gosling as the narrator and the man who sees the situation in the most objective light, and Brad Pitt as the ex banker who sees this as a way to get back at the profession that left such a scarring impression on him. Overall, the big short is a wonderfully entertaining movie that knows just when to slow down and remind the audience why they're having so much fun. "},{"Title":"Prepare to be entertained","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You'll want to be on top of your game because this movie is an education that should be required viewing for anyone in, aspiring to be in or have even considered getting themselves and their money in bed with the financial industry.Watch and re-watch the trailer a few times while taking notes. Familiarize yourself with some of the terminology because even though this movie does a great job trying to represent some of the more complex and even incomprehensible, doing a little homework ahead of time will give you a greater insight and appreciation of the depth and gravity of this tangled web of deceit. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is one of the most important films of 2015, it's a film based on true events which shows the banks and governments frauding the people into a global financial meltdown. This film is loaded to the top with a great lineup of actors, the story is top notch, and I cannot stress the importance's of the knowledge it shares.Now something that confuses me about the world we live in today is, "if someone breaks into your home, isn't someone supposed to suffer the consequence?" In The Big Short (2015) is shows the banks knowingly ripping off the people causing millions to lose their homes, jobs, and much more, though the ending result is 1 person got punished!??? I do not believe that this type of outcome she be, I means an eye for an eye; right?The Big Shorts story shows that there is documentation out there that pinpoints everyone responsible, and this film is based on true events which makes this movie perfect for many reasons. This is a great film and we highly suggest it. "},{"Title":"The Truth is as Corrupt as Fiction","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 9.75 of 10. For those who have seen American Psycho (2000), there's extra beauty in this with Christian Bale portraying a different, but nearly as odd if not as sociopathic, type of American Wall Street oddity. In fact, the film captures the wide variety of borderline sociopaths occupying banks and Wall Street.While technically a comedic thriller, satire, based on the very true and vivid recent history of banks, it would be accurate to call it an acted documentary too.Besides being amusing and educational on the history of the big bailout, it weaves in energetic music, scenery, and well-acted eccentric characters so that it overcomes all the usual complaints about documentaries and historical re-enactments.About the only drawback involves how it decides to dramatize and then tell the truth about one particular dramatization when it wasn't really necessary and added some unneeded length to the film. Fortunately, the film doesn't depend upon it and it is interesting even if somewhat pointless and detracting from the immersion. "},{"Title":"Liberal Mind Control: Condescending","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spoilers Ahead:First, you can check the truth of my statements by simply re-watching many of Clinton's old State Of The Union speeches in which he declared 'a right of every American to own a house.' Every speech trumpeted the burgeoning numbers of poor home ownership. Yes, as other good reviewers have already told you, 'The Community Reinvestment Act' was the engine of destruction. The pressure the federal government put on the banks to meet their quotas so the democrats could trumpet their ballooning numbers was conveniently left out of the movie. See, when Carell gives that 'they will just get bailed out and everyone will blame the poor', the candle is knocked over for you. This was the ideological center of the movie. Also, Pitt's every percentage of unemployment equals 40,000 dead was another hint of the parallax view of the movie. Yes, some great acting performances, but a one sided liberal view of the housing bubble. Granted, the banks ran with the CDO's but what / whom initiated the whole process? Why is there no mention of the dubious assertion that everyone 'has a God given right to own a house' as we heard slick Willie tell us? The wonderful synthesis of our insane oligarchs is echoed in both parties secretly loving open borders: they drive down wages, destroy unions and make the country globally competitive with slave labor nations: ergo, the Republican oligarchs adore open borders. Yet the democratic oligarchs love the voting block of new dependents they are creating for themselves. Rule number one: never trust oligarchs of any ideology. Their core congruence they carefully conceal: more money and power for us. Their gifts for you come with a heavy price: your freedom and independence from their control. The democrats love the votes they bring in by promising free college to a bankrupt nation that owes China 19 trillion dollars. The movie is a reflection of a liberal mindset that the wealthy are demons and the poor are saints from Heaven. Sadly, many took NINJA mortgages that they well knew they could never repay. I, like many of you, have rented; where on earth is it written we all have a right to own a house? Or Free College? Yes, the bankers were unethical but who initiated the process in a disgusting attempt to cement a voting block? Who put pressure on banks to meet quotas so liberal politicians could trumpet their 'bringing every poor family a home?' Look, the movie, while well acted, presents you with a one sided liberal mind control view of the etiology of the housing bubble. I encourage readers to go read the Community Reinvestment Act. Play some of Clinton's old State Of The Union speeches where he brags about the poor people's rising home ownership rates. The easiest way to review it for you is that it is a financial China Syndrome. The agenda is there right away: Satanic bankers and 'blame it on the poor people.' No, I don't, I do blame liberals who would promise their mothers as housemaids if they thought it would secure them votes for their party's dominance. Oligarchs have no party, whether they have a D or an R in front of their names. I know they are lying because their lips are moving. As another election charade begins and we hear the same lies from both parties, it is important to remember that it was a liberal administration's need to secure a voting block that unleashed the housing bubble that did the horrible damage you see depicted here. The absence of who started it, the pressure put on banks to meet liberal poor home ownership quotas are conveniently missing. Yes, it is reminiscent of Empire Of The Sun, well acted, well written and a complete falsification of the financial history of the etiology of the housing collapse. I enjoyed the movie, but it was the usual Hollywood liberal mind control. Keep a short leash on your public servants, my friends. Deus Vobiscum. Q.E.D. "He Who Controls The Past Controls The Future." George Orwell"Politicians And Diapers Must Be Changed Often And For The Same Reason.""We Have The Best Government Money Can Buy." Mark Twain "},{"Title":"The financial Matrix and guess who the batteries are...","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw the movie just a few hours ago. I liked it. I have no training whatsoever in the banking-financial system. I have watched a few documentaries (as I am sure most people have done) about finances and the economy and I used all these knowledge to help me through the movie. I had to pause and rewind a few times to try to get the idea of what was shown.Definitely it is difficult to understand if one does not know the banking lingo. But any kind of movie that deals with a specific subject will have to use the specific lingo. For example if it is a movie about a sport, or a technical subject etc etc or something you are not familiar with, then you will hear a lot of terms that have to do with that specific subject. And if you have no or little idea about the subject, you will either get confused, bored of feel stupid or won't care. And THAT it is clearly pointed out in the beginning of the movie. You will either get confused, bored, feel stupid ooooooor you will just not care......It is a Hollywood movie after all and that will make someone not trust it and say "well it is a movie and not all facts, hell most of them are just a story and are not true or made to look a certain way to serve some side". Well, I will have to agree. Hollywood is a well oiled ENTERTAINMENT machine to "feed" the masses and serve a purpose.Confused and bored I understand... maybe even stupid cause 90% of us have not studied banking/economics. But how can anyone not care about how some F#$@#$%^ers have designed and used all these scams to F$%^&* up the economy and people's lives worldwide!?!?!?!?!?Not all movies are made to ENTERTAIN. Some actually are made to say something even if they are done the Hollywood way. And it is up to the individual to get interested, to get thinking, to dig dipper, to want to learn more. What they come up with is solely up to them.I read reviews on the movie. For those who didn't like it cause it wasn't entertaining I have no argument with. They watch a movie, any kind of movie, only to be entertained and that is their right. But for those that didn't like it cause it was difficult to follow or cause they saw it from a political point of view, I believe they have lost the whole point. Some reviews asked the question about the demographic of this movie. In my opinion it should start with 15-16 year old teenagers, boys and girls of course of all races and religions. Just like in that age one begins to get to know how to drive and gets sexual orientation that can actually understand the why and the how and all that is included. In the beginning of the movie, a parallel is made with the Big Depression 80 something years ago. I have read in the reviews that there is no mention about the Federal Reserve and how it operates. That was totally spot on cause that is the base for all financial and fiscal matters and how the economy is being run. Democrats and Republicans (chose whichever political sides in the country you live in) don't matter. Only the FED(and the equivalent of any country you live in) does. But that is a story to be shown in another movie..... or anyone can look for details in writing or in documentaries. If one does so, then one will better understand the movie in discussion and have a better idea what banks/bankers are all about in collaboration with the governments (all kinds of political side governments) all over the world.There are no good guys in this movie, in this story. There are only people who operated in the system, found a flaw? in it and manipulated it to benefit from it. Like Steve Carrel character's wife tells him: "Saints do not live on Park Avenue". Some of them felt shitty about it one way or another, some didn't. Characters in this movie/story are not portrayed so that the majority of the audience can like or identify with them. So, it is upon the viewer and how much information they have or want to have. "},{"Title":"Well done, grossly misrepresents the real causes of the collapse","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is very entertaining. It does a good job of explaining some rather abstruse financial instruments. Overall it is informative. Unfortunately, it also is grossly misleading about what really caused the housing bust in 2007 and the financial turmoil of 2008. Both were almost entirely the result of misguided federal policies that accumulated over several decades and that reinforced each other. The movie, in contrast, makes it seem as if the only important cause was greed by the financial institutions.Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which exist because of federal policy, funneled excessive funds into housing. They did it in response to federal policies of the 1990s that pushed or even required lower lending standards. They also did it to curry favor with Congress after they were found to have been lying in their accounting in the early 2000s. The Fed kept interest rates abnormally low, making loans cheap to take out. The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1992 reduced taxes on capital gains on houses, making houses more attractive investments, thus stoking demand still more. Federal law makes mortgage loans no-recourse, encouraging speculation. The SEC required big financial institutions to get bond ratings from only those ratings agencies approved by the SEC. That was bad enough because it prevented competition through entry, but the SEC's attention wandered and it allowed the original 7 approved agencies to dwindle to 3 by 2007 because of closures and mergers, further eliminating competition. The Community Reinvestment Act required financial institutions to make unsound loans. The SEC did not bother to investigate the new financial instruments (well-described in the movie) to see if they were sound. Eliot Spitzer (at last a non-federal player), using his office as Attorney General of New York as a springboard for the governorship of that state with his eye on an eventual run for the US presidency, abused his office to abuse financial institutions, leading directly to the destruction of the big financial institutions' research departments. Research personnel in 2007 were half what they had been in 2000, directly the result of Spitzer's shenanigans. There's more, but that's already perhaps too much.The Big Short gets *NONE* of that right, except for a slight mention that the SEC fell down on its job. That's because The Big Short completely ignores all of it to push the easy but misleading drama of corporate greed.The Big Short also misrepresents the housing collapse of 2007, presenting it as largely driven by sub-prime mortgages. In fact, default rates for prime mortgages were just as bad.As of this writing, The Big Short is a leading contender for a Best Picture Oscar, largely because it portrays an event of considerable national importance. It doesn't deserve the award on those grounds (though it is in fact a fine movie) because it grossly misstates what happened and thus lays the foundation for subsequent bad public policy to fix the problem. That's why I give it an 8 rather than a 10.The acting was very good throughout. Everyone is making a big to-do about Christian Bale's performance. It was OK but nothing special. I though Steve Carell turned in the best performance and deserved a nomination.Oh, by the way, about that nasty Chinese guy in the movie who explains CDOs and CDOSquareds and who obviously was behaving in bad faith. He was real, and he was found guilty of gross professional misconduct, barred from working in the financial industry, and given a big fine. His company had to pay a separate big fine. He didn't go to jail, but at least he won't be deceiving the public again. "},{"Title":"The Big Short is just another Oscar baiting 'true story' about poisonous rich people","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short focuses on four denizens in the world of high-finance predict the credit and housing bubble collapse of the mid-2000s, and decide to take on the big banks for their greed and lack of foresight.I was looking forward to this movie but unfortunately I was disappointed. I must be missing something, something really fundamental about this film as it's received such high praise with big thumbs up reviews and nominated for 5 Oscars? Shaky cam, quick cuts, and horribly edited audio makes this flick a quick refund. This film is just another Oscar baiting 'true story' that shows abhorrent, poisonous rich people feel sorry for themselves, because something went wrong.Even though the acting was OK (mostly Bale and Carell), the facts being somewhat accurate, I didn't enjoy the smarmy characters, heavy propaganda, and showing sympathy for the wrong people. As for the plot, there's nothing new here to see, even though the real event was earthshaking, the bad guys lose and the bad guys win. I've watched documentaries about the mortgage collapse, which were more superior to this. The events in question are still quite recent and fresh in our heads. I think for someone without knowledge in finance or the collapse of the mid-2000s would find this film exhausting.The attempts at comedy fail and are distracting. Characters suddenly talking to the camera, loud death metal music, celebrity cameos trying to explain what's going on. These are just distractions. I guess they wanted an almost Michael Moore type vibe but in a more fictional type presentation. "},{"Title":"A story that was necessary to be told","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" centers around a few outsiders who want to make huge profit of the falling housing market which is connected to the huge economical collapse in 2008/2009. Christian Bale, Steve Carrel, Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt lead the cast. Although it is a very serious topic the story is narrated in a humorous way.Let me start off with the many positive aspects of the film. To begin with, I liked how some characters broke the fourth wall occasionally. That is a very nice way of narrating the intricate topic. I am not really into economy and trading and have barely knowledge in that area, and I guess I am not the only one. I believe screenwriter Charles Randolph and director/writer Adam McKay knew this and tried to find a good and entertaining way to solve this problem. By breaking the fourth wall the audience gets "taken" into the story, we are made part of it (and if you think about it, we actually are part of it since the demise of the housing market influenced many of us). At many points I felt as if it was an educational movie. I really liked that. Moreover, the fourth wall played a vast role in terms of comedy.Furthermore, I absolutely fell in love with the editing. Extraordinary work was done by Hank Corwin. Some of the best editing I have seen this year. It was an unusual kind of editing and I needed some time to "adapt" to this, but the result was phenomenal. Quick cuts, freezes, zooms, unexpected cuts, montages etc. Outstanding work, I wouldn't be surprised if "The Big Short" wins the Oscar for "Best Editing".Another great aspect of this movie was the acting. Steve Carell, you're a genius. The way he played his highly-flawed character was simply gorgeous. You hated him, but you loved him simultaneously. Christian Bale impressed me, too, as always. That guy is a chameleon. The roles he plays are simply unique and he always "transforms" to that character. I loved it. While Steve Carell and Christian Bale were the standouts, the rest of the cast did a very good job, too. I am not only talking about Brad Pitt, who played a different kind of role this time and from whom I would have liked to see more, or Ryan Gosling, who made a splendid comeback after having an acting break. I am talking about the whole cast. Everyone in the movie did a very solid job and fulfilled their respective role. Even the minor roles impressed heavily. That must have been one hell of a casting director.As I mentioned before, the movie is narrated in a funny way. I liked the humor. It was a perfect mixture of comedy and drama. They did not overdo it with the jokes. Additionally, the timing was immaculate every time. But I think what made the movie funny was the result of characters that were "caricatures" of real people. The exaggerated way they were represented made it so much fun to follow the characters that partly drove the story.The only thing missing was a memorable and unique soundtrack in my opinion. Do not understand me wrong, the tracks used in the movie were good, but one soundtrack with one "theme" would have been better I guess (see "Spotlight" for instance). The track that was playing during the trailer for example was fantastic and I would have preferred to hear more of that.All in all, "The Big Short" was an important movie telling a crucial story that addresses us all. It was a necessary piece of work. I loved the way it was narrated. The fourth wall, the editing and of course the writing played a big role in that. Did I understand everything? Hell no. Do I feel a little bit more educated? Definitely. The motion picture fulfilled its role in a funny and entertaining way. 8/10 "}][{"Title":"The Big Short is nothing short of big","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is one of the best films of 2015. Firstly, the script is very well written and very unconventional, with scenes with celebrities explaining economic terms. The script is also very humorous and there was plenty of times myself and the audience laughed. The Acting is incredible- Christian Bale looks like he's comfortable, Brad Pitt plays a role he was born to play and Steven Carrell and Ryan Gosling took a risk and went out of their comfort zone playing in a more mainstream drama( Steve Carrell is usually in comedies and Ryan Gosling in Romance). The Big Short is a very important film, as it uncovers the truth about what had been going on at Wall Street, and how some rich, greedy, selfish bankers ripped off the America and the World. By the end of the film, I was sitting there glaring at the screen, trying to contemplate the film I had just seen. By the end of the film, I hated Wall Street and all the bankers that are involved there. By the end of the film, I was hoping that some sort of consequence will be given to these bankers, as I result of the big short.It is one of the most risky films of the 21st century, and I'm sure some big fish at the major banks are unhappy with this film. The Big Short does indeed do its job- uncovering the truth. "},{"Title":"Outstanding.","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Kama Sutra of illustrations of how we were screwed and how blatant capitalism failed due to blatant corruption.This hit every note and then some for me. Christian Bale alone was brilliant. Then add in Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, and an outstanding supporting cast. I knew roughly 70% of what was presented here, but the contextualization of the facts through the eyes of the short sellers was just genius.You would have thought that the cover up would have been what failed the perpetrators, instead it almost worked, and quite possibly will again without the always dirty word: Regulation. The depth and clarity of the drama and the facts together raises my hopes for humankind. Brilliant in inception and execution. "},{"Title":"A Big Film With No Short Cuts.","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short (2015): Dir: Adam McKay / Cast: Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, Brad Pitt, John Magaro: Based on the true account of the economic crises that hit between 2007 and 2010 and the minds behind it or those attempting to counter it. Christian Bale plays Michael Bury, a hedge fund manager who shelters himself in his office with the company of head phones and loud music. He discovers that the United States housing market is quite unstable and finds a way to profit from the situation leaving banks that he visits shaking their heads at the absurdity yet his prediction of the collapse rings true. Ryan Gosling plays Jared Vennett, a trader who learns of Burry's actions and moves forward with his own financial agenda. Steve Carell plays Mark Baum, a hedge fund manager troubled over the suicide of his brother during another financial loss. Baum is flustered over the crises to come and attends several meetings in attempts to sort out the mess but ultimately cannot avoid the questions that haunt him. John Magaro and Finn Wittrock play young investors eager to profit from the credit default swaps but seek refuge from a retired banker, played by Brad Pitt but he doesn't share their enthusiasm for what this will result in. Director Adam McKay steps away from the clever comedies that he has previously made and churns out this portrait celebration where the smaller factors suffer the worst. It is high end greed with consequences that result in many losing their homes. McKay is backed by witty writing and a grand scale cast who play host to the minds engaged in the most blatant get rich quick scam. Score: 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"The movie no one cares for, the film everyone needs to see.","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie puts in perspective the criminality that takes place within the one percent. Puts it into terms the lay person could understand so they can understand the corruption taking place. The whole time you are telling yourself ( what is this ) ( no way ) a hard pill to swallow as a working class. The acting is exactly what you expect from the actors in it. The film overall was a B+. From the director behalf I felt there were some cuts that didn't make sense to me and made me feel like something was left out. Although this is a movie that everyone should see it sad to know that it won't get its message across to the audience that needs it. "},{"Title":"There is no other way that I know of to clearly explain CDO's and MBS's (SLIGHT spoiler alert)","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Both the CDO and the MBS are non-tangible, complex assets. How complex are they? Watch this movie to find out. These very "creatures" nearly took the stars and stripes off of Ol' Glory. Combine the greed of several thousand money-hungry loan officers, pile on bankers and bond traders that find out they cannot produce enough crappy debt (read: subprime mortgages) to keep the machine wheels spinning freely enough, and viola! You have a perfect storm. I am NOT a Brad Pitt fan, however, he puts in a solid performance. Steven Carrell (sp) is one of my favorites because he brings it. He brought it in The Office (TV), Brad Almighty, Foxcatcher, and now - The Big Short. He carried the movie well. As in all books that I have ever read, the movie is a bit clip of the book, however, it was 2 hours and 2 minutes WELL spent and there was nary an empty seat in the theatre on a Saturday over a holiday weekend. Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Highly educational distillation of 2007-2008 financial crisis despite non-heroic nature of film's protagonists","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay, former head writer for Saturday Night Live, co-wrote and directed this black comedy based on the 2010 book of the same name by Michael Lewis, all about how a few quirky finance guys foresaw the looming financial crisis of 2007-2008, and ended up profiting from it.The main character played by Christian Bale is Michael Burry, a former physician turned hedge fund manager who discovers that the US housing market is unstable due to risky sub-prime loans. He becomes convinced that the financial crisis is unavoidable and creates a "credit default swap market," convincing various banks to accept his "bets" that the housing market will collapse. The banks, convinced that the market is stable, gladly accept his investments on behalf of the investors in his hedge fund.We find out a little about Burry's background&#x97;that he lost an eye as a child. suffers from Asperger's Syndrome, and was always a maverick who didn't fit the typical profile of a hedge fund manager. McKay establishes a conflict between Burry and his jittery investors, who stand to lose millions, if his prediction does not come to fruition. How Burry copes with the pressure is where the comedy comes in&#x97; although it's certainly not laugh out loud funny. And it's also quite interesting how Burry ultimately prevents all his investors from panicking and cashing in all their chips&#x97;he does this by creating a moratorium on all withdrawals, right before the big economic collapse!When trader Jared Vennett of Deustche Bank (Ryan Gosling) hears about Burry's credit default swap market, he decides to get in on the action too. Vennett's wrong number phone call alerts our other protagonist, Mark Baum, another quirky, curmudgeonly hedge fund manager adroitly played by Steve Carrell. Baum and Vennett join forces and Baum begins to investigate the depth of the problem with the US Housing market. Baum is a sensitive guy who was deeply affected by his brother who committed suicide. He discovers that collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) are loan packages bundled together and given AAA ratings by unscrupulous rating agencies. McKay wisely takes us out of the finance board rooms and has his principals attend a big housing forum in Las Vegas where Baum in particular meets a fat cat businessman who has profited greatly by creating synthetic CDOs. Baum ultimately convinces his business associates to adopt Burry's stratagem.Also in the mix are small-time, young investors Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) who learn of the swap market and then must conscript a retired banker, Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), to get them in the game. Rickert, now a new age type (and one who has a conscience like Baum), castigates Geller and Shipley for celebrating over impending profits, at the expense of the millions of people who will lose their jobs and income due to the financial collapse. Geller and Shipley try to atone for their selfish attitude by attempting to alert the press about the impending collapse, but to no avail.McKay may see the protagonists here as heroes merely for their foresight into what is to come, and for bearing witness to the fraud they uncovered. Nonetheless, despite their guilty conscience, they ended up profiting from other peoples' misery. Despite their foresight, they're really nothing more than vultures feeding on the carcasses of the millions wiped out in the financial downturn. But it's really the entire financial industry as well as the US government whom McKay is indicting here&#x97;a corrupt system that allowed swindlers to convince low-income people to live beyond their means and obtain mortgages that they couldn't possibly pay off.In the end it's the film's educational value that makes it worthwhile. The 2007-2008 financial collapse is a topic that is difficult to understand. McKay has his characters explain the financial jargon and even brings in celebrities such as Selena Gomez to explain arcane terms that pop up in the narrative. While some of the characters' machinations become somewhat repetitious, I still was able to learn quite a bit about a topic that isn't ordinarily so easy to grasp. "},{"Title":"Wall Street still won't take the blame; movie shows why the should","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five stars for this comedy-drama based on the best-selling Michael Lewis book about the 2008 financial crisis and the lonely voices in the wilderness calling, "Housing bubble," "Housing bubble," "This will end baaaadleeee." The idea that mortgage-backed securities could be anything other than rock solid so went against conventional wisdom that no one listened. But, as we know now, these securities had become more and more vulnerable as riskier loans were bundled into them, and the chaff soon outweighed the wheat. It takes a bit of understanding about how this financial market operated to grasp the significance of the action. Director Adam McKay, who wrote the screenplay with Lewis and Charles Randolph, cleverly provides the necessary background, having characters break the fourth wall to speak directly to the audience. For example, from her symbolic bubble bath and sipping champagne, actress Margot Robbie tells us what a financial bubble actually means. It's " a terrifically enjoyable movie that leaves you in a state of rage, nausea and despair," says A.O. Scott in his New York Times review, which includes a clip from McKay on some of the clever ways the film explains the financial goings-on. The cast does an exemplary job of embuing characters with strong personalities. Christian Bale plays Dr. Michael Burry, a loner physician-turned-hedge-fund-manager who figures out the problem early (and whose character confirms my aversion to heavy metal music). He takes the unprecedented step of actually looking at the individual mortgages bundled into the securities being offered and sees that many of them are weak and involve adjustable rate loans. When their interest rates go up, the homeowners will default. This, to him is an investment opportunity; he'll bet against the mortgage market. The banks are happy to back his scheme (involving credit default swaps), seeing it as a sure-fire winner for them. One of the banks he approaches has on staff a skeptical analyst, played by Ryan Gosling, who believes the good doctor may just be right. He convinces the unconventional trading firm led by Mark Baum (Steve Carell) to invest in the swaps, too. In one of the movie's funniest sequences, Baum sends staff to Florida to investigate some of these mortgages. They find unbuilt houses, a forest of "for sale" signs, and two beach-bum mortgage brokers (Max Greenfield and Billy Magnussen) , who don't hesitate to say they will insure basically anything. "Why are they confessing?" Baum whispers to his staffer. "They're not confessing. They're bragging," he replies. Similarly, Melissa Leo, as an official at an investment rating agency, is badgered into explaining how, if her firm rated investments accurately, the banks would just take their business down the street. In a Colorado garage, another pair of youthful investors (played by John Magaro and Finn Wittrock) wants to parlay $30 million into a bigger fortune. They set out to New York to figure out how. There they stumble onto the real estate problem and see the credit default swaps as their big chance, but they need connections, and they get help from their neighbor back home, a disenchanted former investment banker (Brad Pitt). It's telling that the few people who foresaw and took advantage of the inevitable crisis were all, one way or another, Wall Street outsiders. They weren't unaware that their gains were made on the backs of everyday Americans who lost billions in housing value, jobs and homes, pension fund value, and savings. Meanwhile, the many individuals and institutions whose carelessness, greed, or criminality created the bubble in the first place have not been called to account. No less an expert than Paul Krugman has written, "I think (the movie) does a terrific job of making Wall Street skulduggery entertaining, of exploiting the inherent black humor of how it went down." And, even more important, he says it "got the underlying economic, financial, and political story right." And it's still a story lots of people don't want Americans to hear. "},{"Title":"Best movie to expose and explain how the real estate bubble occurred great movie!! A+","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a former Realtor I took pride and selling homes and loans as the market Went up, few of us predicted the collapse&#x85; no one could pf predicted betting against mortgages, wish I was one of the few that invested, Anyhow I love this movie, and how detailed it went to teach the common person with little knowledge of the how the market crashed, I love how the movie was directed and produced, the cast did a great job, I wouldn't change anything except, big players from Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan and Merrill lynch, aig bedded again the mortgages, it should of been exposed more, also it should of depicted the role of Alan greenspam and exposed him for the crook him and his partners were, how the clueless president we had and still do, we the people had to pay for their mistakes, can you believe that no one went to jail for this horrific crimes, 1 + million families lost their home during this mortgage frauds&#x85; I recommend everyone to see this movie!! And take control of our economy&#x85; Rated this film 9/10 great film "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an eye opener to every people out there who doesn't care about the world's economy! Everyone should watch this movie!!! This is our guide, this is reality, this is what's happening. I'll be planning to read the book as well so I can dig in and understand some points that a normal person like me doesn't know. It's my first time writing a movie review, and this movie just got into my nerves! I have no idea I might end up writing here! LoL it was just so good! I just saw Ryan Gosling's name so I decided to watch ha-ha! and then there's Christian Bayle! of course Brad Pitt, It's like what the hell is this movie and they're all here? So I tried to look and I was stunned like what am I watching ?? what is this ??? The stars really did a great job in this movie!! So yea Congratulations to everyone! "},{"Title":"An economic thriller TEN STARS!","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I gave this film the highest rating because it goes beyond entertainment to attempt to explain how the system could be so fatally flawed. I think I will watch it again so I can thoroughly understand the details. The movie is not partisan. But if you get your economic views from Fox or Drudge you will hate this movie. Both sides were guilty of the asinine deregulation of the banks that created casino capitalism. As late as 2008 one presidential candidate was saying that "the fundamentals of the economy are strong". The movie shows how the rating agencies that gives the bonds their letter grades are both incompetent and corrupt. The ending is remarkable because it lays out in stark terms how the bad guys not only won but got the US taxpayer to subsidize the bank CEOs' and managers' multi-million dollar bonuses that they are still getting. Only one low level banker got a prison term for this evil act of raw greed and corruption. The American people still don't understand what happened (because a lot of people at the top don't want them to know). This movie is a long overdue first step in explaining it. "}][{"Title":"Three True Stories Told So Well It Will Help Prevent Amnesia!","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Full Disclosure: A close relative of mine sold out and ended up working as a lawyer in the derivatives department at Bear Stearns during the crash and promptly lost her job. To her credit she left the sleazy world of Wall Street to raise a family. I personally received an application for what is now called a Liar's Mortgage in 2007 from State Farm! I had the good sense to realize that not having to have the information on my application verified was cause for alarm! I still rent to this very day.With that said The Big Short is a very powerful movie with three true stories intersecting on what would be a scandal that could have led to a worldwide collapse of the world's economic system. Nobody talks about this anymore. The Republican critters running for office pretend it never happened even though it is the single most important event of the 21st Century! The Big Short made me feel uncomfortable, like it should. I identified with all the main characters since I come from a family of business men. In every disaster there are good guys who play by the rules and get screwed. The near global catastrophe was caused by fraud on such a huge scale that it defies the imagination. How could so many people willingly conspire with each other and do so much harm to the rest of the world and go scot-free? At the very least there should have been a Truth Commission like they had in South Africa.The Big Short is such an important movie that every MBA student should be required to watch it before graduating along with every history major. It's that good of a story. It's the ultimate Cautionary Tale! "},{"Title":"Eye Opener of the corruption in USA !","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow ! Wow ! Wow !!! Most people do accept that corruption is rampant in the USA, but after seeing this movie you will ask yourself how is this even possible. How can people be so irresponsible and unaccountable? Everyone needs to see this movie to wake up and start asking questions. Christian Bale, Steve Carell are fabulous and the script is awesome. Wonder where Christian, Steve, Brad, and Ryan are investing their money now. I seriously doubt their money is invested on Wall Street after making this movie. Wall street is a ponzi scheme. Madoff was peanuts compared to what Wall street is doing. Do not believe what the 6 o'clock news is telling you. Do not believe what politicians are telling you. Do not believe what economist on TV are telling you. All the "experts" are in serious conflict of interests because they are being paid to read a prepared narrative. "},{"Title":"Masterful Filmmaking; Hope It Wins Best Picture","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I walked out of "The Big Short" experiencing that unique high I get from an excellent movie. As much as I loved "Spotlight," I really want to see "The Big Short" win the 2016 best picture Academy Award. I don't know anything about money and I rarely see movies built around finance. "The Big Short" is all about men's cut-throat competition with each other in a world as testosterone-fueled as the military or professional sports. Its virtuosic filmmaking is what glued me to the screen, ready to learn, laugh, and, yes, cry. A barefoot man in a t-shirt is pouring his heart out, in an utterly unselfconscious way, to another man, who is wearing a suit. At the end of the conversation, the man in the suit timidly asks, "So, do I get the job?" It's a surprising and very funny moment. It tells us about the childlike soul and lack of social skills of the casually dressed man. It's quick and it doesn't beat you over the head. Either you caught the depth and the humor in the scene, or you didn't. Next, we are in a support group of some kind. A member is sharing a personal heartache. Another man bursts into the room. He is talking loudly. He drowns out the first man. Everyone stares at him in anger and disgust. The rude, oblivious man makes himself a cup of coffee, and then uses his cell phone and leaves the room. He is one of the most insensitive, obnoxious people you've ever seen. The movie tells you his backstory, and it's so complex, and so heartbreaking, that you fall in love with this character. "The Big Short" seduced me through terrific writing that captured characters in quick, deft strokes, and made me care about those people, people who are human just as I am human, and, through my caring about their humanity, made me care about their very alien world. I have no money and don't understand how it works. They play with billions of dollars before breakfast and then go to strip clubs. Masterful filmmaking. The supernova cast puts the story across. Ryan Gosling, Brad Pitt, Christian Bale, Marisa Tomei, and every secondary actor is superb, like Jeremy Strong as Vinny Daniel. The one performance that made me sit up and want to shout, "Hold everything!" is Steve Carell as Mark Baum. If you cherish the experience of being so moved by art that it changes how you view a person and how you view the world, you will want to go to see "The Big Short" just so you can see Steve Carell's performance. "Mark Baum" is a fictional hedge fund manager inspired by a real person, Steve Eisman. In the film, something tragic happens in Baum's life. That event is fictional. It didn't happen to Steve Eisman. This is what is not depicted in the movie, at the request of the Eisman family. The real life hedge fund manager Steve Eisman had felt that he had an angel on his shoulder that looked out for him. He felt that nothing bad ever happened to him because of this angel. This is what common mortals like us assume about the superrich &#x96; the Richard Cory fallacy. One night, a nurse hired to look after Eisman's newborn son, Max, rolled over on top of Max in her sleep. Max was smothered to death. Eisman changed after that. That's the character Steve Carell plays in the movie &#x96; a man touched by tragedy. He is the moral gravitational center of "The Big Short.""The Big Short" knows that it is selling something few viewers will want to buy. The 2008 economic crisis was caused by very complicated financial manipulations. Many people, including me, don't understand it. Too, people want to lay the blame on their villains of choice. Left-wingers want to blame greedy Wall Street oligarchs. Right-wingers want to blame Democratic politicians who won votes by making unfulfillable promises and greedy, lazy borrowers. "The Big Short" addresses the difficulty of its subject matter by occasionally reverting to docudrama mode. It breaks the fourth wall. Ryan Gosling plays Jared Vennet, a character based on Greg Lippman, aka "Patient Zero," that is, the first person who saw the crisis coming and figured out how to capitalize on it. Gosling is a supremely charismatic actor. He turns to the audience and explains what is going on on screen. Because this is a Hollywood movie and not a science class documentary, he uses stars like Selena Gomez and celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain to educate the audience in what all this financial mumbo jumbo means. For example, Bourdain, in a restaurant kitchen, says, "What if I buy too much fish. I chop it up and resell it as fish stew. It's not old fish; it's new stew." That's how wheelers and dealers resold bad mortgages.Too, the characters on screen are often confused by what is going on in their own financial world. Steve Carell as Mark Baum is one of those confused figures. He needs other characters to explain to him. Gosling explains by bringing wooden blocks to a meeting. The blocks represent "tranches," or financial products. As each tranche is pulled away, the entire structure becomes weaker, and collapses. "The Big Short" is intriguing enough that it made me want to read about the 2008 financial crisis. It's easy to find articles online, like one by Michael Grunwald at Politico, stating that the film is incorrect in its depiction of that crisis. Even if Grunwald is correct, that the movie made me want to read more about the crisis is testimony to its achievement. "},{"Title":"Superb - intriguing, funny, edifying, scary and moving","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Superb - intriguing, funny, edifying, scary and moving.Based on the book by Michael Lewis (writer of Moneyball, Liar's Poker and Flash Boys, amongst others), the true story (though most of the main characters' names have been changed) of a handful of investors who bet against the US mortgage market in 2006-7. Through their own research they discovered that the US mortgage backed securities market was a bubble about to burst, and they invested accordingly. What they didn't initially know was how structurally flawed the MBS system was, the level of corruption in the market...and the impact on the average person when the bubble burst.Incredibly interesting and informative. Maybe you have to know finance and investments (as I do) to understand some of the concepts, but the mechanics of the market and their proposed investment (their big shorts) are fascinating. What is even more interesting is that market so structurally flawed can even exist, especially without any decent regulation...Quite funny too. Director Adam MacKay's previous feature films have all been comedies - Anchorman, The Other Guys, Talladega Nights, Step Brothers - and here he lightens the mood (at relevant times) with some great humour.As the movie goes on, however, it takes on a more serious and sombre tone. This conveys well the impact of the bubble bursting. The ultimate feeling is one of helplessness and anger.Superb performances, especially from Christian Bale and Steve Carell. We expect this from Bale but Carell is starting to throw off his comedy past and put in some fine dramatic performances. Foxcatcher was the start and here he is in fine form again. Considering how different the two characters he played (in Foxcatcher and The Big Short) are, he is not only a good dramatic actor, but one with decent range.Good supporting cast which includes Ryan Gosling, Brad Pitt and Marisa Tomei. Margot Robbie, Anthony Bourdain and Selena Gomez appear as themselves and provide some of the film's wackier moments.Ultimately, a great exposition of the greed, stupidity, self- interest and lack of regulation that caused the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. "},{"Title":"Dear God Good","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wasn't expecting to like this film as much as I did. I have seen lots of new articles, interviews and talking heads that like to portray Wall Street and the banks as just these innocent darlings that happened to get in over their heads. The general gist is that the are like lambs, if you will, swept up by events beyond their control. So I was expecting the same white wash, condescending drivel from this film. Instead I got a humorous, subtle and quite importantly, entertaining take on the housing bubble. It is dam hard to recommend something to friends that is informative unless it passes the entertaining and fun quotient. This film passes the mark by miles. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" An amazing film... with so much research of what was happening back then but also what its done now! It's a documentary a drama a comedy and all that wrapped with the vague notion of reality! in the end the audience will be deeply into the thoughts of... this was a great movie... but wtf is happening if this isn't just a movie and is a reality... which it is! Are we really that doomed? I believe that although the cast was top notch in the end nobody will remember the sexy chicks or the high class known actors... but the problem itself! and that's excellent... especially from a Hollywood movie thats not expected when you have well paid actors... usually they do the work but in this movie that's not the case! One word that could describe it, B-E-A-U-T-I-F-U-L "},{"Title":"The Big Short was Surprisingly Well Done","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is a playful attempt at one aspect of the housing crisis in America which many have likely never even heard of. Based on Michael Lewis's book with the same title, and directed by Adam McKay (Anchorman, The Other Guys, Step Brothers, and much more), this is a new look upon a terrible moment in American history.The film addresses a select few individuals whom were able to predict the housing crisis only moments prior to the collapse, and in doing so were able to take full advantage of what was to happen.The past 2 years have been ones of great transformation for Steve Carell. In Foxcatcher we see him take on a new role which is far from more common comedic ones noted in the past. Carell once again does something amazing through playing Mark Baum (a representation of real life Steve Eisman). As an interesting side note, Eisman was reportedly on set to help Carell in portraying him for the film.Steve Carell shows that the Comedy genre is not the only brand of film he can successfully take part in. I was thoroughly impressed with Steve's performance and am looking forward to future roles to come from the now multi-dimensional talent.Another notable performance is that by Christian Bale. Oh boy was this an amazing job done by the renowned method actor. In an interview on NPR, director McKay describes the many transformations made by Bale, including actually learning how to play the drums.But what truly amazed me about Bale's performance was how believable he made the character with which he portrayed. He played Michael Burry, an American hedge fund manager who was into heavy metal music (and I mean HEAVY metal, screaming, yelling, and loud noise) as well as obtaining a degree in neurology from Stanford. What made this character so interesting was that financial investment was merely a hobby he played with at nights when not studying for school.Often in films where several top-tier talents are casted, you will find that the film itself falls short along many aspects... but not this particular motion picture. I say well done to McKay.This film was made in such a way to allow for all types of audiences to enjoy. And that is precisely what happened. Do not miss out on this opportunity for learning about a small piece of American history that has been passed over by many. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies of 2015","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" is the screen adaptation of a book by the same name written by Michael Lewis, one of my favorite writers. Lewis also wrote "The Blindside," an award-winning film and several other books on the financial markets.Lewis focuses on the few oddballs who could foresee the financial meltdown, partly because of their personality quirks. The film brings real- life characters to the screen. These are the few people who knew for a certainty that Wall Street was laying the foundation for a massive meltdown in the financial markets.The screenwriters did something which seems impossible: they made this material very funny. Nearly every working American was touched by the meltdown. Their pensions, IRAs and 401(k)s suffered horrible losses, and the real estate sector of the American economy was crushed. We watch these brilliant misfits sleuth their way to an understanding of the complex, multi-layered fraud that was the sub- prime mortgage world.The failure of institutions to protect investors is a background story. In the foreground are truly interesting characters who were like the Paul Revere's of the avoidable crisis., but no one would listen. Fraud paid much too well, and there were no grown-ups in charge of our banks, government agencies, rating agencies or real estate firms.This film is fun. "},{"Title":"Betting Against the American Economy","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Basically this is a movie about the 2008 Global Financial Crisis and how three individuals picked up on the coming financial Armageddon and decided to play the market at its own game. In a way it is part a documentary, and part a story about how these individuals (though one of them is actually an independent arm of one of the major investment banks) decided to bet hundreds of millions of dollars against what many saw as being a rock solid economic foundation. In fact what they were doing was not just betting against the American economy, but also betting against the stability of the world economy.What the movie does is that it attempts to explain what the main causes of the the catastrophe where, namely the fancy financial instruments that were created with the belief that the market would always go up, and that real estate is always a rock solid investment. However as some of the characters begin to dig deeper, whether it is looking at the figures that go to make up these financial instruments, or whether they go out and put their ear to the ground, they become ever more convinced that there is a serious problem within the economic system.It was interesting how one of the characters, the head of a Californian investment fund, came to discover the shaky ground that many of these securities were built upon. However, there was no financial instruments that allowed him to bet against it, which meant that he had to go out and create them himself. Mind you, when he first suggested these investments to the large Wall Street banks, they simply laughed at him, however since they have no problem taking people's money, they were more than happy to comply (particularly since they saw it as easy money).I could go on for ages taking about this crisis, however I will pull back a bit and simply talk about the film &#x96; it was really, really well done. The director did a great job of explaining how these financial instruments worked in a fairly clear manner (though the problem with some of them is that even those who created the instruments didn't actually know what they were supposed to do). It also gave a pretty clear indication of the risk these people were running, especially since they were making a bet against something that nobody could ever conceive happening (and even now, after what happened in the United States, if you raise the suggestion of an over-inflated housing market people will simply laugh at you and claim that you have no idea what you are talking about &#x96; the situation in the United States was different).I have to say that I loved a number of characters in the film as well &#x96; especially Mark Braun &#x96; I never even realised that this was Steve Carroll until I checked the cast list at the end. I'm so used to him playing comedy roles that when he comes along and takes the role of a guy that isn't afraid to say it like it is, and to call out the fraud that he sees around him, then I have to say that my impression of him as an actor increases. In fact there were a couple of characters here that were rather odd, including the fund manager who spends the day listening to Metallica, bashing away at his drums, and coming to the office casually dressed. I guess to stand out from the crowd in the Wall Street game one needs to be a little odd and eccentric.Mind you, if you are looking for a film that offers solutions, then maybe this isn't the one for you. Still, it is a great film that clearly paints the picture of how much of a casino culture our financial world has become. In fact it is quite interesting to discover that the securitisation forum was being held in Las Vegas of all places. The problem is though, our world hasn't gone back to the time that it was in prior to the Financial Crisis. In fact it has never even recovered and we are still experiencing shockwaves from it eight years after the fact. Maybe it was the biggest short of the century, but ever since then the financial system hasn't been the same.Oh, and as usual Brad Pitt was also outstanding (I didn't even realise that he was in the movie until I read a review on IMDb). "},{"Title":"From the director of "Anchorman" comes a mockumentary "Wall Street"","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having browsed the Michael Lewis source material, it is a compelling examination of the 2008 financial crisis, starting from its roots on the housing and credit bubble to its fruits on the Wall Street. Strings of business jargon and crass pop culture from the book makes this as a fitting material for "Anchorman" director Adam McKay to take the helm.The movie glances on three interconnected stories of New York-based firm personalities who engaged on earning big from a marketing bubble on the credit and housing sectors. Each story has its own quirks and stakes to an impending crisis. The source of its growth comes from hedge fund manager Michael Burry (a sardonic Christian Bale, redoing a calm but crazy Patrick Bateman), who predicted the collapse from loan numbers he received and devised a way to profit from it by betting on the big corporations. His plan was realized when Deutsche Bank investor Jared Vennett (a snarky Ryan Gosling) decided to get involved in the credit swap, dragging along trader Mark Baum (an outstanding Steve Carell) and his firm. Burry's predictions also catch the eyes of junior investors Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock), who set a credit default swap deal with several officials, with the assistance of veteran banker Ben Rickert (a low-key Brad Pitt). All stories intertwine to what becomes the horror story for the world economy but an accomplished mission for those people who profit from it.The main topic that surrounds "The Big Short" is a complex issue that truly requires an unorthodox method to boost interest. Adam McKay's approach goes for the mockumentary style, complete with hand-held camera-work, supportive montages and jumps from scene to scene. Also adding to McKay's oddities is the splurging editing (thanks to deserving Hank Corwin), which spans from the surrounding pop culture of the period, and the sudden fourth-wall breaks. It seems in favor of the source material that McKay and Charles Randolph narrow down to directly tell the complex tale of the 2007-2010 financial crisis. It also helps that the cast ensemble are at their full game through the proceedings; Carell's Baum being the most sympathetic and Bale's Burry as the golden goose. This makes them one of the most compelling casts in a comedy- drama. And a must for "The Big Short" because this is a crucial piece of informative cinema, from the outrageous mind of Adam McKay. "}][{"Title":"A movie that shuts out 90% of audiences","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" is a 130-minute movie from 2015 that seems to be one of the big players this awards season. The writer and director is Adam McKay, who is mostly known for his work on SNL, his Funnyordie short films and his films with Will Ferrell so far. Here he takes on a completely new ground. And successfully so if you can trust awards bodies. Same goes for Christian Bale (and Steve Carell to a lesser extent). However, I can not share the praise that this film has been getting. Bale and Carell have some good moments, but are occasionally over the top too. Gosling is pretty embarrassing with his talking to the audience as a younger, very poor man's version of Marty Kaan and I am not a fan of "House of Lies". Brad Pitt (also a producer here) is almost unrecognizable because of his makeup and adds nothing memorable to the film either. There are enough characters in here, but you never feel for any of them.Early on, the film starts with pretty pretentious quotes by famous writers. Not much later, the film says that Wall Street profits a lot from people not understanding economical terms used by businessmen. All this is certainly true and I hoped that this film would become easier accessible at this point when it made said statement. It did not. People may not understand businessmen, but we also do not understand the men in this film either. Funnily enough, they use text to explain stuff mentioned by the characters on 1 or 2 occasions, but it's so random and doesn't help at all in the grand picture. It tries to be a documentary occasionally, but completely fails in getting the audience involved. McKay must have realized this and that's why he included the sob story for Carell's character completely out of nowhere.I really wish the movie would have run 100 minutes max instead of 130 and actually managed to teach the audience something. They did not succeed on an informative level. They did not succeed on an emotional level. Honestly, they basically did not succeed on any level. I am writing this as somebody who does not have much of an interest into economy. But this is not a film that will get you interested. This is a film that will entirely shut you out if you do not have a profound interest in the matter. This is quite a shame as the contents in this movie were one of the most important developments of the 21st century that affected millions of people. I wish McKay could have given this a shot easier to access, like for example Reitman did in terms of unemployment with "Up in the Air". Baco to this one, it baffles me to see all the favorable reception from audiences, critics and awards bodies. I guess their egos in most cases are too big to admit that they had no clue what was going on in this borefest. Not recommended and 4/10 stars is actually pretty generous. "},{"Title":"Close to home","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Greetings again from the darkness. Since there are so few subjects more hilarious than the 2008 financial crisis, let's get the writer/director of Anchorman and Step Brothers to adapt the Michael Lewis best-selling book. OK, so it's improbable that was the thought process, but kudos to whomever was responsible for bringing Adam McKay to the project. Before you go assuming it's a poor fit, it should be noted that McKay is also one of the creative minds behind "Funny or Die", a site filled with political and social satire. It's that satirical approach that makes this explanation of what went wrong so accessible to the masses. Make no mistake &#x85; this is entertaining and educational and thought-provoking and nauseating and infuriating and funny and disheartening.If the film were described as a tutorial on MBS (Mortgage-backed Securities), CDO (Collateralized Debt Obligations), Credit Default Swaps, Tranches, Bond Ratings, and Sub-Prime ARMs, most people's eyes would glaze over and they would keep skimming for showtimes of other new movie releases. In truth, it is those things &#x96; and so much more. This is the story of how the housing market collapsed leading the government to the massive bailout that saved some of our largest financial institutions &#x85; and how a small group of people recognized what was happening and literally bet against the U.S. economy. It follows the bread crumbs to re-assemble the slow process of spotting the fault in the analysis that lead to massive corruption that finally crossed over into systematic fraud &#x85; and does so by using creative presentation approaches like a Bond Rating game of Jenga, and celebrity snippets for definitions and examples.Ryan Gosling stars as Jared Vennett (based on Greg Lippmann), a slick Deutsche Bank trader who acts as our guide through the muck of shorting securitized mortgages, while simultaneously working the system for his personal benefit. He works with Mark Baum (a character based on Steve Eisman, played by Steve Carell) who manages FrontPoint Partners, and Baum's team played by Rafe Spall, Hamish Linklater and Jeremy Strong (whom you might remember as Lee Harvey Oswald in Parkland). While this is going on, there are two other similar story lines we are following. The first is Christian Bale playing hedge fund manager and savant analyst Dr. Michael Burry at Scion Hedge Fund. Burry is often cited as the first to recognize the impending collapse and invest against the market. Finally, we have the "garage band" investment company based on Cornwall Capital run by (names changed) Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) and Charlie Gellar (John Magaro) with a big boost from former trader Ben Rickert (played by Brad Pitt in a role based on Ben Hockett). The stellar cast is rounded out by Marisa Tomei as Baum's concerned wife, Tracy Letts as the head of Scion, Max Greenfield and Billy Magnussen who play cocky and clueless subprime mortgage brokers, and Melissa Leo who plays a Standard & Poor's employee.It's difficult to tell this story without casting blame, and few escape the wrath of Lewis, McKay and co-writer Charles Randolph. Those absorbing shots to the bow include: the Federal Reserve, the SEC, Rating Agencies, big Banks and Investment firms, Fund Managers, Traders, Realtors, and Mortgage Brokers. Companies specifically named include JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, WAMU, Option One, Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, and The Wall Street Journal. The point made is that the problem goes/went beyond greed, and is/was truly system-wide, with each segment protecting themselves and their turf. Somehow the name Barney Frank is not mentioned, and FNMA and FHLMC escape mostly unscathed, while CRA lending requirements are not discussed. It's not politically correct (and not mentioned here) to question why so many borrowers who couldn't pay their rent regularly accepted loans that they knowingly couldn't afford to repay. But that's a topic for another time.With full disclosure, I will admit to having been in the mortgage business for 18 years. Though I was never involved with subprime loans, I will always disagree with the stance that the industry and institutions were not aware of the risk and impending collapse. It was common knowledge that "no doc" loans were absurd, and the adjustable rate schedules and prepayment penalties for subprime (and some conventional) loans were beyond impractical and more like homicidal (from a lending perspective). In the film, Baum interviews an exotic dancer who owns multiple homes &#x85; all loans made with minimal documentation due to the cash basis of her business. The terms of the loans set her, and other similar borrowers, up for financial ruin &#x85; right along with the housing sector and economy. The subprime mortgage brokers portrayed by Max Greenfield and Billy Magnussen may seem cartoonish, but Baum's confusion with their "confession" versus "bragging" is spot on. There were many just like these two clowns who considered themselves "rock stars", when in fact, there were really "bartenders who now own a boat". These weren't the type to question whether the loans made sense &#x85; only how many could they close to pad their 5 and 6 figure per month income levels. Of course, in defense of these morons, it was the banks and lenders who designed the loan programs to "feed the machine" with more and by necessity, higher risk loans &#x85; to the point where it was no longer possible to spread the risk wide enough for protection. Hence, the collapse.By the end of the movie, you should expect to have a headache and feel quite cynical towards the system. Despite the humor interjected by quick-hit segments from Margot Robbie, Selena Gomez and Anthony Bourdoin, the seriousness of the topics is more than bubble baths, blackjack and fish stew. The film leaves us angry and nauseous from what happened in 2008, but more importantly questioning &#x85; Has anything changed? Have we learned anything? These answers are likely to cause a more sickening reaction than looking back seven years. "},{"Title":"Excellent Masterpiece","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just want to say that this movie blew me away. As a person who was personally affected by the housing crash, this was a very poignant film. I had an advantage going into this movie, because I knew a lot about how sub-prime mortgages were sold in bundles to investors. However, the film does a wonderful job of breaking down the financial "jargon" so everyone can understand. In other words, you don't need to be an amateur economist like myself to thoroughly enjoy and grasp the story.I think this is an important film that everyone should see. If nothing else, you will get a very in-depth dramatic representation/explanation of just exactly what went so terribly wrong in 2007. "},{"Title":"The Big Rip Off","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It should have been called the Big Rip Off and it shows how absurd the whole thing was. I heard people talking after the show and everyone got it. I hope many, many people watch it. The director and the actors' accomplishment is not trivial; they get across a complicated mess full of arcane words and sordid people in an entertaining two hours. Humor, perhaps irony is a better word, is used to make this stuff digestible. In the end the Big Question is who's minding the store. Nobody. Uncle Sam is too busy looking for a job at a Big Bank. In this case it was Cousin Samie instead... who ended up in bed with you know who. The movie is full of good metaphors like that. Apparently, of all people, only a young man figured out what was going to happen early on. His name is Michael Burry. All the Big Wise Men didn't, or didn't want to. We'll never know. As a footnote, Michael Burry wrote an op-ed in the NYT in 2010 asking the Big Question. Within a month he got a visit from the FBI and four audits, probably IRS, SEC, etc. You'd think Uncle Sam would want to hire him instead. "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, If I were you I'd sell Sominex shares short, this production is a much better way of putting people to sleep than any known medication. How can you take an event like the crash of 2008 and make it look like a day at the offices of Dunder Mifflin?Steve Carell, one the mysteries of the universe, like cold fusion, like atomic entanglement,like the make up of quarks... nobody can understand these phenomena, just like nobody can explain the success of Mr Carell. I'm sure he's a very nice guy, but he happens to be a cosmic coincidence where someone gets paid for just being who they are. They could have just cut and pasted a couple of scenes from that very same "Office" series mentioned above, and nobody would have noticed the difference.As for the plot of the movie itself there's nothing new here, even though the real event was earthshaking, the bad guys lose and the bad guys win. There is a half hearted attempt to portray one side sympathetically but in this sleazy business they're all greedy and they're all big time gamblers so there's no redemption when one of them cashes in.In the end the man in the street has to pay for it all.They use the "House of Cards" trick where the actors speak directly to the camera but there's an emptiness to it that makes you beg for Kevin Spacey to be talking. I think that emptiness is conveyed because the actors themselves (and maybe even the Director) don't have any understanding of how the finance business works and particularly didn't have any idea as to how the collapse came about.To be honest, there was more tension and emotion in the PBS documentary on the crash of 2008 than this film. You know that feeling you get when you have a flat tire and you're stuck at the side of the freeway? Well that's how I felt when I got out of the cinema.I should say though that Marisa Tomei has matured just beautifully and I could overlook the bad parts of this clunker just for the pleasure of seeing her on the big screen.Sorry but me no like "},{"Title":"smart director","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The big short's director is one the smartest directors in Hollywood after Aronofsky and of course Kubrick. this movie was one the best movies have been made about wall street and stocks. better than wolf of WS. I see everyone admire bale for his acting but i think Carell's character + his acting was one of the most believable and respectable acting complex in whole cinema history.for the people they don't know the story :In 2008, Wall Street guru Michael Burry realizes that a number of sub prime home loans are in danger of defaulting. Burry bets against the housing market by throwing more than $1 billion of his investors' money into credit default swaps. His actions attract the attention of banker Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), hedge-fund specialist Mark Baum (Steve Carell) and other greedy opportunists. Together, these men make a fortune by taking full advantage of the impending economic collapse in America. "},{"Title":"Game of Bubbles","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Big Short' seems to want to play off the same vibe as 'The Wolf of Wall Street,' with characters directly addressing the audience and even explaining which scenes are dramatized and which really happened. There is even a series of celebrity appearances inserted solely for the purpose of explaining the core financial concepts to laymen. Although trying to explain the housing market bubble of 2007/2008 using blackjack bet, Jenga tower and seafood cuisine analogies is only marginally successful, the fact that nearly every single scene in this movie involves the various characters discussing, debating, delving into or otherwise taking action related to this bubble basically gets the picture across to the audience. But that, and the fact that it's a long movie and about 95% of it is these same characters waiting for said bubble to burst, also makes it a rather one-dimensional movie, and a bit on the dull side at times. Still, it's worth it for the interesting subject matter and a particularly entertaining performance by Steve Carrell. "},{"Title":"Just boring.","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some 52 minutes into the film, an actor in one of the many buddy buddy scenes breaks the fourth wall and takes a two second gaze directly into the camera. I shut if off at that point, and thanked my lucky stars I didn't contribute to the cinema studio's take at the movie theater. This film really felt like just another 'popular boys theater club' spending money on a poor script just because everyone was "hot" and popular, and "ballin like wall street". It played like a poor person's film: flashy, big chested, long diked, frat house rude. There was no sophistication in it. It felt like the outcast step brother to Leo DeCaprio's Wall Street junk stock mayhem. Sure, Steve Carroll has his moments, but this certainly was not one of them. And Christian Bale, he could have done a better job if he just grunted through the entire film like he did in "Batman"....tis a shame that the 2012 film "Capital" was received less than this new rendition of "why I got rich." The Big Short felt like a home brew from the local men's club after hours.... I didn't stay tuned to see if the breasts from Jordan Belfort and Jonah Hill's version made a cameo. "},{"Title":"The Big Short (2015)","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The financial crisis of 2008 and the men who pulled the strings behind it is a story too crazy to make up, and that's exactly the premise of The Big Short, a lesson in the Great Recession of the United States and a black comedy about the people that caused it. The Big Short starts in 2005 with hedge fund manager Michael Burry who discovers that the U.S. housing market is extremely unstable. Predicting that the market will collapse sometime in 2007. Burry realizes he can profit from the crash by betting against the housing market. His idea is laughed off by major investment and commercial banks, but they accept his proposal, believing the market is stable. From there, Burry's idea is heard by several hedge fund managers and traders, and their profits increase as the housing market crashes. The documentary-style camera-work and dark comedy make this dense subject easily accessible to almost everyone. The film's funnier moments come when some random anachronistic celebrity comes to explain financial terms to the audience, with the best being Selena Gomez. Even with all the black humor in the movie, The Big Short can't help but make you angry at the real-world villains that it's portraying, which is exactly what the movie wants. The Big Short is both hilarious and angering, and while it's obviously not a documentary, it does offer one of the best on-screen presentations of the 2008 financial crisis that is thought-provoking yet accessible. "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie, but completely misses the big picture","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is superbly-acted and well-written. Brad Pitt, Steve Carrell and their supporting cast give great performances, but the shocker for me was Christian Bale's portrayal of a brilliant fund manager with Asperger's syndrome who can "do the math" and read markets with unnerving clarity and correctness even when the results go completely against the grain of conventional thinking.Bale inhabited this character, based on Dr. Michael Burry, with stunning effect as if he actually had this difficult to identify condition. It was a stunning transformation and masterful feat of acting. The tortured humanity of Carrell's character also came through luminously as his conscience wrestled with profiting from the economic collapse and the stupidity and dishonesty of the immediate circumstances that preceded it. But Bale's performance was by far the more subtle and awe-inspiring to me.Michael Lewis' story is compelling on a human level, describing the tribulations down in the trenches as three different hedge funds bet against the housing bubble mortgage market and derivatives on it. It highlights human greed and stupidity, and the inertia of huge institutions. But it also highlights very different life experiences of three very different funds, one on Wall Street, another in Silicon Valley, and another originally from a garage in Colorado.The production is very stylish and bright, presumably to dress up what might otherwise be a dull topic. The anguish at the stupidity of the situation, where banks are packaging toxic assets as if they were investment grade also creates emotional space for the actors to explore, but ultimately the story is told with an unduly heavy hand, as one might expect from Hollywood. The events are dramatic enough that a little scaling back of the acting might have served the story better. But Hollywood movies don't work that way; someone always gets to take the lead and ham it up, while others play it straight.What's disappointing is that The Big Short is ultimately a highly orthodox, doctrinaire, short-sighted, lightweight and ignorant critique of capitalism. The film, and presumably Lewis (I have not read the book it's based on) completely miss the big picture context of government regulations forcing banks to make subprime loans as a form of "social justice" by getting otherwise unqualified buyers into home loans. This is touched on briefly in the scenes with the mortgage brokers, but the movie perhaps intentionally ignores the context of why it happened in the first place. It is blind to the underlying causes.I can only suppose that this is because it goes against the orthodox leftist premise that business, markets and capitalism are bad, and that governments must act in opposition to them lest they prey upon innocent people. The reality is that government policies forcing banks to make bad loans created the situation, starting decades earlier. The culmination was collapse, but the fundamental cause was government intervention in the economy. Even Congressman Barney Frank, a staunch champion and initiator of such intervention, ultimately admitted this was a mistake after the crash.Google for the Community Reinvestment Act and the role of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in underwriting bad loans and educate yourself about the facts. Don't be spoonfed incomplete and one-sided information. "}][{"Title":"Steve Carell as I've never seen him before","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What everyone else said: brilliant movie, educational, entertaining, etc.But the eye-opener for me was Steve Carell. My respect for him as an actor skyrocketed after this movie. Maybe I've been missing something, but I've never seen him in a serious role before. When watching this movie, I immediately latched on to Mark Baum as someone to whom I should be paying attention. I later found out that he was played by Carell and I had a tough time reconciling that.I think Steve Carell has many great dramatic roles in his future and I am very pleased with that because I'm not a huge fan of his comedy. I like his comedy well enough, but his dramatic chops are several steps above. I said what I came to say in the previous paragraph; this paragraph is just an attempt to make IMDb's minimum length requirement. "},{"Title":"A movie about how it all went down - mortgages, banks, investors and people.","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The thing about most scams is that the schemers usually get away with it (well some might land up in jail after making tonnes of money). Its the people they have conned that suffer - and these people are everyday people like you and me. This is exactly what happen during the sub-prime mortgage crisis. Banks, investors, funds managers, and people remotely connected to the financial world - all made money. Except the people on whose name the mortgages were on.What is it aboutThe Big Short based on a book by Michael Lewis (The blind side, Moneyball fame), is a good movie - its not great and I will tell you why in a bit. But lets start with the good stuff. It has big names who acted pretty well - Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell, Brad Pitt and Christian Bale. The characters they portrayed are all real people and that's what made it interesting. Christian Bale is Dr. Michael Burry, the man who predicted it all. As early as 2005, he knew the Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS), the instruments with which bankers were making loads of money already, were made even more lucrative with sub-prime mortgages filled in them. His prediction and solution to make money for his investors is one story.The other parallel story is of Steve Carell - again a fund manager working for Morgon Stanley. He is angry and by moving back and forth during the movie they tell you why. His story is about his dilemma - of looking for a loophole in the system but hoping against hope that there is no fraud.The third parallel story is about 2 new fund managers, kids in the big bad world of finance, who have made good money already by picking the right stocks for their investors but chance upon the sub-prime crisis pretty early on and take the help of Brad Pitt to short the MBS.The street-smart, suave Ryan Gosling is the one who kind of stitches all three parallel stories together in his own cool ways. He is in it to make money as well but not at the forefront.Why it didn't work (for me)It's a complex plot, people with no understanding of the sub-prime crisis will find it really difficult to follow this movie and that is why Adam McKay, the director has tried to provide bite sized finance lessons with the help of famous people like Margot Robbie, Anthony Bourdain, Selena Gomez etc. But I don't think it will help people who just want easy movies where you don't have to follow each and every dialogue.That's where the movie lost out for me. The big short is convoluted, its difficult to follow because it keeps zipping through multiple stories and characters (I personally like this style but for such an intricate movie, this didn't work). Though all the actors have done their bits well, it feels almost clinical - it didn't bring out the emotions that it should have - the grossness of it all, the pathetic situation of people like you and me or anger that not many people who were responsible for the crisis went to prison.Maybe that's what the movie is about, the smugness of all the people who did what they did by cheating normal people and didn't give a dime about people who lost their houses and jobs.Why you should still watch itWatch it to understand a bit about the crisis - after all its part of history, something that happened and affected millions of people around the world. Also watch it for Steve Carell. I usually don't like his antiques and comic sense, but he has done a brilliant job in this one - his shock of finding it all out, perplexity of what one should do in position of power and his really emotional outburst is a joy to watch. I forgive him for all the crappy movies he ever did. :)I give The Big Short a C+. Did you think it was better than what I thought of it? "},{"Title":"How to Succeed in Business Without Really Creating Anything","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Popular Oscar Nominated Film could cause a Mild Headache and/or a Severe Stomach Upset. Mostly because it Hits "Home".The obviously Dumbed Down method of Fourth Wall Breaking and Jacked Up Jargon explanations (with on Screen Dictionary breakdowns), and Celebrity Cameos claiming to speak to the "Little People", the Movie manages to convey that it is "Hip to be Square".The "Square" types personified by Christian Bale as the &#x10;first to "&#x10;See" (and with only one eye) and a "Garage Band" Homestyle, Self-Financed success Story and a Rogue Squad spin off (umbrella of a major bank) led by Steve Carrell as a Doomsayer (a fantastic performance).Also included is Ryan Gosling as the Narrator and Silver Tongued Slick that has developed a killer Presentation complete with Props and One-Liners trying to offer struggling Wall Street Minor Leaguers to Help Themselves as They in turn Help Him.It's all Razzle-Dazzle Postmodern Filmmaking putting Wall Street, the Banks, and the Government under the Microscope and Wha-La, the Virus is spreading and a devastating Disaster is Inevitable. It's Sesame Street for Grown-Ups and the intellectually Shorted.The Conservative Reviews and Reviewers are want to point out that not ALL the blame is "The Big Banks" and that's right. Nothing this all encompassing could have happened without the participation of the Regular Folks. Yes, the "Con" takes two to tango and the Mark (the sucker) has to willingly "Sign on the dotted line". But, and it's a Big But, They are being presented "An offer they can't refuse", mostly because of Human Nature and Big Dreams, You know, "The American Dream". So They are by "Default" players in this Rigged Game. The Difference is that They didn't know the game was Rigged and are only Guilty of being Gullible, Stupid, Uninformed, or at worst just trying to climb aboard "The Gravy Train" on the way to, God Forbid, Owning Their Own Home. None of that is Immoral, Unethical, or Illegal.Can that be said about the "Con Artists"? "},{"Title":"A Different Look at the Housing Crisis of 2008","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the same housing economic meltdown in 2008, The Big Short covers the story from the different viewpoint of a few who saw it coming. Michael Burry (Christian Bale), was a physician and hedge fund manager, creator of Scion Capital LLC. He was the first to recognize the impending doom of the careless practices by financial institutions and bet heavy on the housing market bubble to burst in a big way. He was so confident in his analysis that he used $1 Billion of his investors money. Some of his investors were more than displeased and pulled out in 2006 and 2007. When the market crashed in 2008, Burry profited $100 million for himself and another $700 for his remaining investors. He was quoted as saying, "I don't go out looking for good shorts. I'm spending my time looking for good longs."Banker Jared Vennett (Ryan Gossling) and another hedge fund manager Mark Baum (Steve Carell) caught wind of what Burry was up to and jumped in as well. Some young investors accidentally discovered what Vennett was up to and talked Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), an ex stocks trader, into taking part. The Big Short was nominated for Best Picture of the Year and Bale was nominated for his supporting role. It won for Best Adapted Screenplay. The preview looks to be a stinging look at the corporate greed that rocked the world with a bit of humor as a small group forms a bit of a financial coup. However, the humor is either going to be one of those "it's funnier because it's true" situations, or it will illicit a sort of "ha-ha-ouch" at just how crippling their ignorance and greed was, and still remains today.I anticipated rating this 3.5 stars. Throughout the movie, I dropped down to 2.5, but raised it up to a final verdict of 3.0 stars. It's entertaining, well-acted, but sometimes hard to follow. What helped me raise it up was that the movie self-admits that it's own subject matter is boring and confusing. It takes breaks from the film in unique ways to help those of us not in the know what exactly is going on. I was still confused at parts during the film, but those moments of "banking for dummies" definitely helped. These breaks are done through an artistic method called "breaking the fourth wall". In theatre and in film, when you as an audience member are looking at a scene with 3 walls in a room, the fourth wall is assumed to be where the camera is positioned. You take it for granted that there is a fourth wall and don't think about the cameras and cables and directors and monitors, etc that are actually there. When an actor on stage acknowledges the audience by speaking directly to them, or in a movie when you are addressed by the actor breaking away from the movie, they are ultimately admitting that there is no fourth wall, that this is just a play or a movie and that there are people watching in one way or another. Gossling's character helps to drive the story much like a narrator in a Shakespearean play who introduces the plot with a prologue, has a couple recapping monologues and then sums it up with a prologue. Unfortunately for The Big Short, if you watched any television at all or were on the internet or picked up a paper in late 2008, most of the things covered in the movie, we already knew. The banks started making more money off of mortgages by clumping them into bundles. They were secure with the best ratings meaning that there was almost no chance the mortgages wouldn't be paid back. The banks made a ton of money. Eventually, housing for the qualified homeowners started to dry up and the bonuses started to shrink. That's when they started lumping in some riskier mortgages in to the bundle. No one did background checks and the mortgages written were only for a short introductory period that would then balloon into 200 to 300 per cent of the original payback rate. When the introductory period ended and millions found they couldn't afford their payments, millions lost their homes and even more lost their jobs and the banks covered it all up. When the truth was finally discovered, it was too late and the US Government saw no other way to limit and reverse the damages than to shell out billions in taxpayer money to the banks. This money was used to then pay out big bonuses and only one person ever went to jail. And the banks are still doing it today, just with different names. The Big Short was very well-acted, entertaining, confusing, upsetting, but seeing it once was enough for me. I might catch it on TV someday, but it won't be making it to my home collected, hence the 3.0 star rating. "},{"Title":"Superbly involving movie mostly because of amazing acting and electrifying script","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Although i do not really know this world that the movie takes us into, and "AAA" didn't rang a bell at the beginning of the movie, "The Big Short" has such a great acting and electrifying script, that it grabbed my attention from the beginning till the very last end, although there were many moments were i didn't understood how exactly that or that works. Hey, but don't worry, Margot Robbie in a bubble bath and Selena Gomez will explain some more innovating term to you - hilarious stuff.Overall, "The Big Short" is just a great movie. Every actor (especially Steve Carell and Christian Bale) shines in this movie, and because of great acting and superbly involving yet not easy script this movie was a blast. Highly recommended - but not for everyone. "},{"Title":"An excellent, entertaining movie.","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If this film hadn't been multi-Oscar-nominated and also hadn't been so well regarded by the critics, I doubt whether I would have bothered to watch it.This is notwithstanding the fact that it stars one of my favourite actors, Steve Carrel. After all, do I really want to hear yet again about how the world went into recession and resulted in me to losing hundreds of thousands of dollars? Quite frankly, it is an event I'd rather forget.But I'm glad I did see it.Not only did it add to my understanding of the whole sorry saga, but it was surprisingly entertaining &#x96; full of dark humour.The Big Short is essentially the true story about a few clever people who actually foresaw the crash coming and bet everything they could get hold of on that certainty. We, the audience are given an easy to follow lesson on what caused the recession and just how corrupt and deceitful the whole crazy US financial system turned out to be.It is also a cliff-hanger, in as much as these disparate entrepreneurs who gambled their lives on the system crashing, were nearly derailed by the utter corruption of the financial establishment. Even when it was commonly known throughout the markets that the sub-prime bonds were worthless, none of the major banks would admit to it. Even worse, (if that's possible) the disgusting rating agencies colluded with the establishment and continued to rate these worthless bonds as triple 'A' bonds. Yet they freely admitted they knew the truth but were worried about losing their rating business.We can't help but applaud these clever folk who foretold the market crash and succeeded in becoming multi-millionaires. We also deplore the fact that nothing much seems to have changed, and not one of the principal criminals has spent a single night in jail.It is an excellent, entertaining movie and definitely worth a viewing, but I'm not totally convinced it was worthy of nomination for the best film Oscar. "},{"Title":"The Big Short review","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was great! As soon as i saw the trailer, this was a movie i was looking forward to. Being directed by Adam McKay, this is a very different film for him to be directing, as normally he does comedy films with Will Ferrel, my favourite being 'Step Brothers' But even though this film wasn't a comedy, it still had a comedy feel to it, it had it's moments which worked really well in the film. With the storyline being focused on the marketing crashing, it sounded very dull and not my sort of film at first. But, when i saw the cast set up, it convinced me to go and see it. I'm a big fan of Christian Bale in movies, i think he is one of the greatest actors of all time, and i do like Ryan Gosling in films as well, so i just had to go and see this. Whilst watching it, i was drawn into the film, and i thought the idea of Bale's character Michael Burry having a glass eye made his character immediately memorable, and his kind of difficulties he had with his character. He brought a sense of difference compare to the other characters, for example, he never wore socks or shoes in the office whilst he was working on his research for the marketing, and he had a big love for heavy rock music. That sequence with him on the drums was particularly effective to me, as it showed him at home, and he spoke about his private life on camera. In scenes, it reminded me of the TV show 'The Office' which also starred Steve Carrel. I thought the comedy parts really worked in the film, as they made it different compare to any other movie i've seen. It was unlike any Adam McKay film i've seen, that shows that he has a wide range of ability in his directing. This film is definitely worth seeing even if you aren't a fan of the marketing business, or even a businessman, because i'm 17 years old, and i am a big Movie fan, who tends to concentrate on the Acting side of things when i watch films, but i still found this film very interesting and amusing. "},{"Title":"The Jury's Out on this one..","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Clever and accomplished. Well scripted and acted. A story well told. But. If you don't conceive or have an interest in the workings of the financial markets this might be a long dry watch with heavy subject matter. And if you do conceive the workings of the financial markets and have an interest then the subject matter is a tad lightweight. Never going beyond "A beginners guide to ABS...". So what is the target audience. By straddling the fence between documentary and entertainment it never succeeds in being a statement for either genre. Well made and, sort of entertaining, but this is ultimately a very missable film. No must see here. "},{"Title":"The film of 2015","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a career built around Will Ferrell vehicles such as Anchorman (2004), Step Brothers (2008) and The Other Guys (2010), writer/director Adam McKay has made an astonishing leap into the big-leagues with The Big Short, clearly a passion project that discusses the inner workings of the housing market and subprime loans and manages to make it entertaining, funny and infuriating all at the same time. It tells the story of the financial crisis that hit the U.S. and eventually the rest of the world in 2007, and the men who foresaw it and profited hugely from the disaster while nobody paid attention.Adapted from Michael Lewis's novel of the same name, The Big Short tells three non-intertwining stories. One-eyed hedge-fund manager Michael Burry (Christian Bale) suffers from Asperger's, but what he lacks in social skills he makes up for in sheer ability to read numbers. He is the only person to take a look at the housing market in detail and sees its collapse as a certainty. Visiting several banks, he bets against the market while the staff laugh behind his back. Spray-tanned trader Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), who also serves as our fourth-wall-breaking narrator, catches wind of this and, realising that Burry's predictions are likely correct, decides to bring his credit-swap dealings to the attention of other potential investors.One person who is convinced by Vennett's proposal is Mark Baum (Steve Carell), a hedge fund manager with anger issues and a hatred of The Man, who, along with his team, starts to investigate these distressing claims for himself and learns that the banks have been selling collateralised debt obligations - loans made up of worthless bonds given fraudulent AAA ratings. Small-time investors Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) also want their piece of the action but are below the capital threshold to make a worthwhile profit and so employ Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), a former Wall Street trader turned reclusive organic-obsessive, to assist them with their trades.If it all sounds a touch confusing, it's because it is. The entire housing market was wrapped up in so many layers of bull-s**t that it took a weird genius such as Burry to actually see it for what it was. McKay is aware of this too, and to ensure that attention doesn't wander during those important moments of exposition, he employs celebrities such as Margot Robbie, Anthony Bourdain and Selena Gomez to explain it to the audience in simple terms. The film doesn't think that the audience is stupid, but simply acknowledges just how dull the subject matter is. The fact that the banks ultimately escaped punishment and were bailed out by the government reinforces the importance of the general public's understanding of how they operated to ensure it doesn't happen again (although the sobering revelations at the climax reveal that they're at it again already).The cast is uniformly flawless. Carell is the stand-out. with his Baum serves as the film's simmering champion of the little people. While he works in stocks, he holds nothing but disdain for the way his country operates. Bale is terrific too, careful not to paint Burry as a cartoon character as he slumps around his office in shorts and bare feet and pounds air-drums to heavy metal (Bale also has the uncanny ability to move each of his eyes independently, removing the need for a fake glass eye). While Gosling's Vennett is your typical grease-ball suit, he revels in the characters arrogance and projects enough charisma to even convince Baum to trust him. Despite the ensemble, the real hero is McKay who resists laying on the style too thickly and delivers a film bursting with energy, maturity and humour. Of the Academy's 2015 Best Picture line-up, The Big Short is my pick for film of the year. "},{"Title":"Top-notch, entertaining, but at the same time infuriating look at the economic collapse","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" After his work with Will Ferrell on the wild laugh-out-loud comedies such as 'Anchorman', 'Step Brothers', and 'The Other Guys'; Adam McKay is one of the last people you would expect to take on a dramatic and particularly complex subject. Much to surprise, his efforts on adapting Michael Lewis's novel 'The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine', revolving around the 2007 financial crisis pays off shockingly well, featuring a powerful cast, a stunning screenplay by Charles Randolph, and McKay's overall strong direction. Christian Bale plays Michael Burry, a hedge fund manager of a Manhattan bank who spends his days in office in shorts barefoot, playing drums on his knees, and blaring heavy metal on his radio. Upon examining the country's financial records, Michael predicts that the housing market will collapse in 2008 . In response, he makes a massive bet against the country's economy and begins tossing millions to credit swaps. His actions gain the attention of Wall Street investor Jared Vennett (played by Ryan Reynolds), and the quick-tempered hedge fund specialist Mark Baum (played by Steve Carroll), along with several other investors. This strategy leads Michael and fellow investors to strong wealth, while the economy takes a turn for the worst.Director Adam McKay makes a crucial point in this dramedy centered on the corruption of the financial business and how the devastating effects it had on the country's economy, while balancing a comedic undertone to lighten the dramatic subject matter. As this film is inspired by true events, it showcases the story on how the housing market was in critical condition and the ignorant actions these bankers took in response to the discovery. Then the film progresses into great detail on how the bankers lead themselves to fortunes while millions of families are left unemployed and losing their homes. With this done by powerful writing by Charles Randolph, what results is a film that is both entertaining, but at the same time effective enough to cause outrage in viewers, particularly those who were effected by the economic collapse. When the characters are introduced, viewers begin with believing them as heroes before the film progresses into their fateful actions, revealing them to be ill role models and difficult to root for. By then, the film becomes more emotional and effecting, while managing to carrying out a comedic undertone. Some scenes will have you laughing, while other scenes will have growing a strong emotional and occasionally anger feel.This film does a magnificent job on touching the significance of the financial business and the consequences of the greed in these bankers, though it sometimes a bit too hard to explain the structures of the bank operations to where viewers who aren't too educated may struggle to comprehend but teaches you valuable information about money investing. Plenty of dialogue dealing with mortgage rates, stock funds, and other complex terms by Christian Bale who gives off a purely outstanding performance, Steve Carroll who pulls off another powerful performance, and Ryan Gosling who plays a Wall Street investor with great complexity, and the film at times feels the need to dumb it down by the character breaking the fourth wall, including a short cameo by Margot Robbie and a rather odd one by Selena Gomez explaining the process of gambling. Breaking the fourth wall is a bit overused here, but does works effectively at times. Then there is Brad Pitt as a financial adviser who is not giving too much screen time, but serves a significant role in the plot with diligence. These actors really strive in their roles, and play a highly solid aspect in the film.The Big Short is top-notch and entertaining that embraces its complicated subject with wittiness and intelligence, and will leave viewers captivated and at the same time, angry at learning the poor decisions that played a factor in the crash of our economy, at least for those who are able to understand it. The film is fantastically directed, powerfully acted, and definitely one of the best written films recently. "}][{"Title":"The Ultimate Side Bet","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can only imagine there will be two emotions after watching The Big Short, confusion or anger. Confusion is natural; there is an enormous amount of information about an intentionally murky system. The financial structure that led to the housing collapse and largest recession since The Great Depression has enough information to fill a library. This is no exaggeration. The sheer scale of data, cause, effect and global impact could take lifetimes to truly understand. What The Big Short succeeds at more than anything else is dumbing it all down in a way that makes you angry at the system for needing it dumbed down. If this world, which all of our well-beings are slave to, were easily understood than there would be no story for the handful of people who saw the collapse coming. What makes these people special is a mix of in-the-know brilliance, and a pessimism that requires a dark capitulation of the finish line.Christian Bale plays Michael Burry, an investor on the spectrum who clues into a default trend for sub-standard housing loans&#x85; Had I not just seen the movie, this sentence would have been nearly meaningless to me. What is important is that this story is not about protagonists who are clamoring to prevent a crisis. These are self- interested people who may lament the collateral damage of the impending hell, but at least know how to hedge bets so they won't be in its path. Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, Bale, Brad Pitt, John Magaro, and Finn Wittrock are only half the players portrayed in this high stakes game of Jenga. They are somewhere between the victims of the general populous and the perpetrators that obliviously helped move pieces into the decaying structure. They are not around to elicit our sympathies; they are there to court us through this quagmire of jargon and elicit emotions on our own behalf. Stands a good reason why I was so engaged and furious by the end of it.The end-game for these characters is to bet against the housing market; the largest medium of investment in our country. When the bubble bursts, the side bet they made on it pays out with outstanding odds. Because we live in the future to these events, we know from the beginning that this is a sound business strategy if not just making lemonade. What their personal stories reveal is just how corrupted the system really is. Even with all of their foresight, these characters wait unreasonably long for the truth to come out. This is due to a national evasion working against any prevention by not recognizing the wound until the body is already bled out. It's the difference between seeing your guilty child next to a cup of spilled milk and that child distracting you at the door while the carton is still spilling in the kitchen. If there is redemption for these characters, it's how little they gain from their fortunes. The realization that the humanitarian cost for their monetary prosperity is too high to celebrate. These subtle character pivots are the endearing entertainment to an enraging story. If you knew anything about Adam McKay prior to this movie, about the only thing you were thinking during the pre-view was "where's Will Farrell?" When so much of McKay's previous work was hinged on improv comedy, it was enthralling to see that he helped pull off an Oscar- worthy screenplay. The comedic notes throughout The Big Short made this upsetting story easier to take. Were this a documentary, it would have been equally as informative, but less engaging because of the unrelenting waves of infuriating facts. With a very talented cast, these characters unburden us by feeling so much on our behalf. Steve Carell is especially fun to watch as he maintains a constant anger that mirrors our own. The entertainment factor is probably little consolation for the thousands of home buyers in 2006 who look on thinking "Great, now I know specifically how I got screwed." "},{"Title":"A bitter and necessary view","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A more then decent film that tries to explain, without sentimentalism, one of the biggest economic crisis of our times, a true story that still relevant.I watched this behind the contemporary "99 Homes", that I suggest as well as it makes sense.Apart from a few mistakes on the events, more or less important, the movie manages to gives a enough realistic and understandable idea of what has happened (and is happening) and why. Surely an informative film that should be certainly seen just for this reason, especially if you have not already seen documentaries and understood these issues.Under the point of view of cinematography instead it leaves much to be desired. The continuous movement of the camera, zoom-in, to give it a journalistic style, it is annoying and unnecessary in this movie. The dynamic edit tries to be original but the result is not that pleasant."The Big Short" is not flawless, but still worth for the raw and bitter denunciation and true facts exposure on the economic crisis and the banks, that we are experiencing.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie about the sub-prime economic collapse","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short tells the story of a bunch of investment brokers as they un-earth the house of cards like financial products that the big banks sold, re-packed, sold and re-packed again. The story is told in a documentary style that frequently breaks the fourth wall and takes time out of the narrative to explain some of the more technical stuff in easy to digest minuets that keep the narrative going. Everyone - essentially - acts their socks off with Steve Carrel knocking it out of the park on many occasions. Gosling gets top billing (and I don't think I have heard him speak so much dialogue before...) and he is great but more of a support and Christian Bale puts in another solid performance as a socially challenged fund manager. My only gripe about the film is that the investors are made out to be quasi hero's, highlighting the fraudulent and despicable actions of the investment banks - but they really are just as bad as the banks; profiting off the eventual plight of millions of people just trying to get by. They showed no inclination to maybe visit the FDA or the government and give them a heads up on the catastrophe just waiting to happen in the hope that they could either avert it or at least throw a few people into jail...That aside, this is a very good film and worth the 2 hours running time. "},{"Title":"The Amoral Side of America","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" is a good film that offers insights into the economic collapse of 2008. The perspective of the film is from a group of wise investors who recognized the coming collapse and in effect bet against the brokerage firms, banks, and mortgage industry. The dialogue is crisp and lively, and the male-dominated cast handles the pace deftly.The theme that emerges from the film is the greed that consumes nearly every character. Even the savvy investors who recognize the fraudulent practices are motivated primarily to gain for themselves on the collapse. The most interesting role is Mark, as played by Steve Carell, who comes the closest to a character with a conscience. Due to the suicide of his brother, there is a greater personal dimension to Mark than the other characters, who remain fairly one-dimensional.The film goes so far as to suggest that the problems at the heart of the 2007 crash have not been remedied, and the cycle of corruption has started anew. For this reason alone, the film is worthwhile viewing. "},{"Title":"'People are going to be doing what they always do when the economy tanks - blame immigrants and poor people.'","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay directs this American historic nightmare for which he also wrote the screenplay with Charles Randolph based on Michael Lewis' book. Despite the fact that the film recreates the (in many ways) origin of Wall Street corporate greed and the loathing of the wealthy bankers for the rest of us who suffered because of their illegal shenanigans, and is cast with some fine actors, the taste the film leaves in the mouth is so bitter that it is difficult to honor this award-winning film with a review.The plot is far too well known to us all (though the language of the film &#x96; all in corporatese and financial mishmash is tough to follow) and is best left with a brief synopsis: Revisit the stock market crash and near dissolution of American economy as Michael Burry (Christian Bale), an eccentric ex-physician turned one-eyed Scion Capital hedge fund manager, has traded traditional office attire for shorts, bare feet and a Supercuts haircut. He believes that the US housing market is built on a bubble that will burst within the next few years. Autonomy within the company allows Burry to do largely as he pleases, so Burry proceeds to bet against the housing market with the banks, who are more than happy to accept his proposal for something that has never happened in American history. The banks believe that Burry is a crackpot and therefore are confident in that they will win the deal. 'Four denizens in the world of high-finance predict the credit and housing bubble collapse of the mid-2000s, and decide to take on the big banks for their greed and lack of foresight.'The funky weirdo characters are well portrayed by Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, Brad Pitt, Maria Tomei and on and on. They pull off the disgust we feel for corporate greed and manage to recreate this nauseating time in our history very well. It just is not a pleasant film to watch. "},{"Title":"Sad economics movie got an Oscar - oh, the irony...","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" saddest movie that I've seen in the past few years. this movie does not end in a "superhero saves the day" or a "wow, we made billions on the downfall of US economy" tonality, it is a gritty depiction of reality and at the end the salary man must pay. the movie itself is good documented (can't believe it won an Oscar for screenplay), all actors fit their roles accordingly, it was really fresh to see them play in different roles than the ones we were used them to play in. it is a documentary with a bit of artistic "wolf of wall street" zoom outs and freeze frames. the end of the movie left me a sad feeling, knowing that keeping people dumb via wrong education and focusing them on living a drone life, scavenging to pay for things they do not need, won't change the economics of the future, but instead will push all life into a profits war, were banks create money out of air, and mortals fight as slaves on a plantation to keep the "economy" going. "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this & think everyone should see it, but make sure you're alone after because you'll be in a bad mood for hours","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "While the whole world was having a party a few outsiders and weirdos saw what no one else could." In the mid 2000's Michael Burry (Bale) could see there was a housing market collapse coming. He decided to purchase a short, betting that the collapse would be massive. When word of this gets around more and more investors do the same thing. All betting that the US economy would tank. The bad news is they were right. They scary news is that this is a true story. This is a very good movie that is a little confusing to understand, for me anyway, but they did a good job of explaining it for non-wall streeters to understand. Just about everyone remembers this crisis and what happened and the fallout. What I didn't realize is how out of hand the mortgage loans became and why the collapse was so catastrophic. The more the movie went on and the more was explained the angrier and angrier I became, and by the end of it I was glad I didn't have anything to throw because I would have needed a new TV. This is the type of movie that is important and will hopefully change things, but judging by the way the actual crisis was handled I doubt it. Overall, a movie that I highly recommend and think everyone should see, but make sure you're alone after because you will be in a bad mood for hours. The actions of the banks was worse than I thought. Disgusting really. I give this an A. "},{"Title":"Provides an understanding of housing bubbles and corrects mistaken concepts in the movie and Lewis' book.","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie, like the book was a fascinating story of the lives of some of the people who made money by buying swaps on the MBS market during the housing bubble, but neither Michael Lewis, the makers of the movie, nor the people who got rich when the housing bubble burst had any clue as to why the bubble formed, or why it burst. One example of the lack of comprehension was the "explanation" of the arcane financial instruments used in the MBS market. The lady stated that CDOs that were created by bundling other CDOs were Synthetic CDOs. They weren't; they were CDOs squared. A synthetic CDO was created by bundling Credit Default Swaps. This is a significant difference because the CDSs didn't require the insured party to own the Mortgage Backed Security that was the referenced security in the swap. This meant that transactions involving Synthetic CDOs didn't cause any money to flow into the housing market. The loss of that money caused house prices to stop going up at an absurd rate, which ended the housing bubble. Another significant error was the impression given that Wall Street hid bad mortgages in piles of good mortgages, and thereby sneaked them by the rating agencies. That wasn't how it worked. The very bad mortgages were singled out and combined into their own CDO. This CDO paid 14% interest because the borrowers were buying $700,000 houses when their income was $40,000 a year. The rating agencies rated these mortgages as AAA because THEIR FAILURE RATE WAS ZERO FOR YEARS. The rating agencies role was not to advise investors how to invest their money, but to report accurately the likelihood that the investment would fail. Those extremely bad mortgages never defaulted because the payments were being made by refinancing the house. If the VALUE of a house increased by 20% or more each year, and the cost of borrowing the money to buy the house was 6% a year, the borrower doesn't have to have any income in order to afford the house. It was because of the universal belief that the price of houses was going to continue to increase by 20% or more a year that it was possible to create an investment that paid 14%, with no risk that was apparent to anyone on earth. Wall Street just did the mechanical job of creating the instrument that reflected market conditions. They didn't create the bubble, and they didn't understand the bubble any better than anyone else. If the Synthetic CDO had burst the housing bubble a year sooner, Goldman Sachs would have gone belly up because they were long in the market. The housing bubble came about because, when the stock market bubble of the 1990s burst the stock market gamblers took their money out of the stock market and parked it in interest bearing accounts. This made money cheaper, and mortgage interest rates fell. When that happened home buyers could pay more for a house and have the same monthly payment, so house prices shot up for a long enough period of time for everybody to believe that they would always increase at that rate. That is when the segment of housing market developed in which borrowers could buy whatever house they wanted with the expectation on the part of the buyer the loan broker, the lender, the regulators, the Congress, the media, the economists, and the public, that poor people could enjoy the housing bubble benefits as well as rich people, because they could make the mortgage payments out of refinancing the house. Everybody else could also continually refinance to buy anything they wanted. The economy was great! The only downside was that all of that money that was being consumed was money that would have been invested in wealth creating, and job creating, enterprises if there had been no misunderstanding about why house prices had gone up for a while when the gamblers parked their money in interest bearing accounts. By the time the gamblers had found another casino in which to place their bets it didn't make any difference because house prices were then rising at an unrealistic rate because people could make money by owning a house. Making money by owning a house became the dominant reason for owning a house instead of shelter, comfort, a nice view, proximity to employment, and all of the other considerations that set the price of houses in a normal market. So, the reality is that Wall Street didn't behave badly, rating agencies didn't behave badly, and no one was any more responsible than anyone else for the disaster that was the housing bubble. As Pogo said, "We have met the enemy, and it is us." Other than having perpetuated a mistaken view of economics that may yet do us in, the movie was great. "},{"Title":"Makes banking fun, entertaining and shocking","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" While normally talk about banking or bonds is about as fun and interesting to us common folk as signing a mortgage agreement, Adam McKay's Oscar winning (and Best Picture nominated) The Big Short does the seemingly impossible task of making an entertaining product that's main topics are very much the stuff of nightmares whether they be CPO's, stock market trends or Christian Bale rocking out to Pantera.Based upon Michael Lewis's no doubt complicated and insightful book of the same name, The Big Short feels very much like Lewis's other famous novel Moneyball, where he made an on face value dry subject matters into energetic and easy to understand scenarios, even if some of The Big Short's more intricately detailed situations would take multiple viewings to fully comprehend, but that's the world we live in and McKay's simple message of banks being shady and the common people paying for it comes across clear as day.Graduating from the world of Step Brothers and The Other Guys and producing credits on the likes of The Dictator and HBO's fantastic TV series Eastbound and Down, McKay who is Will Ferrell's creative partner in crime shows significant chops in his ability do coherently deliver The Big Short's weighty materials to life and while the film at times struggles with tonal shifts and the over reliance on shaky, sometimes even blurred camera views to make it seem "busy", the films easily one of the most finely assembled American productions of 2015.Going for the team over one star player approach, The Big Short gives equal moments to its cast members to shine with Christian Bale (aka The Drummer Boy), Steve Carrell (focussed on his new Oscar hunt) and Ryan Gosling (with fake tan?) getting the most to do but receiving valuable support from the likes of Brad Pitt (who also produces the film), Finn Wittrock and Rafe Spall. With such seasoned performers at the forefront to the picture The Big Short eases into a steady roll on as these men played the money making game as the world around them slowly but surely fell apart and come the end game, The Big Short's poignant message resonates in a meaningful and eye opening way.Full credit must go to the team that bought The Big Short to life as while it's by no means a flawless piece of entertainment it's a film with an important subject to share and the film shares it in a fun and often unique way (Margot Robbie in a bathtub anyone?) and this picture marks an interesting career point for director McKay who may just be one director to keep a very close eye on.4 fired up drumming sessions out 5 "},{"Title":"What the hell is Wall Street about?","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Honestly, it' s the one question that popped into my head throughout the movie. I think i have already giving you the clue as to why it is not worth running to the cinema to watch: simply, it is too complicated. So complicated in fact, that during the movie, the director stops the telling of events to teach you the things you must know in order to be able to understand what the movie is about. The feeding of economist info is just too much and you quickly find yourself looking at your hoping for a quick end. This movie will not watch the Oscar! trust me on that! It's nomination only indicates that the this year cinema's quality has taken a knock. "}][{"Title":"Great Performances All Round in an Entertaining if Slightly Cluttered Movie","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reviewed by: Dare Devil Kid (DDK)Rating: 3.3/5 starsAdam McKay admirably directs an all-star cast comprising Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, and Brad Pitt in this surprisingly light-hearted and entertaining take on America's housing bubble collapse of the mid- and late-2000s, which eventually led to a global financial crisis. However, if you're not well-acquainted with the world of finance and several of its nitty-gritty details, the clumpy narrative and salvo of banking gobbledygook in "The Big Short" might cause your attention to drift at at some points in the movie.Though the film comes across as a tad bloated at 130 minutes, it still impresses quite a bit with all that it packs within its frames. It's evident McKay and his co-writer Charles Randolph try their best to make the banking jargon as easy as possible for the audience to comprehend, even going so far as using the game Jenga and on-screen graphics to describe the fragility and ultimate decimation of the economy. At key intervals, the filmmakers even employ the assistance of guest stars from Margot Robbie to Selena Gomez to 5-star chef Anthony Bourdain in their endeavor to help the common man wrap his/her head around all the complex financial terminology. Unfortunately, this also makes "The Big Short" feel impersonal, and you feel there's too much of emphasis on number- crunching, statistics, office meetings, boardroom talks, and predictions. You end up wishing that some of this care and effort was directed toward highlighting the well-known human suffering resulting from this economic meltdown.Still, McKay does more than a decent job at offering copious food for thought on how not to live and how intricate, and, more importantly, fickle the financial system really is. Best-known for collaborating with Will Ferrell in comedies like the "Anchorman" films, "Talladega Nights", and "Step Brothers", McKay never forgoes an opportunity to add some much-needed wit and satirical humor to proceedings, which helps in easing out the heavy narrative to an extent.Undoubtedly, it's the actors' sublime performances that have helped "The Big Short" soar to such heights this awards-season. And, in spite of all the praise, awards, and a third Oscar nomination that's come Bale's way - and he indeed does an exemplary job as he's so often done all through his career - it's Steve Carell who shines brightest out of the extremely talented ensemble cast. "},{"Title":"CDO's CDO's CDO's CDO's CDO's CDO's CDO's","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Have you ever sat down and watched a film, enjoyed it, but have no f*cking idea what just happened and what you just watched? Well that was my experience with the Big Short.Adam McKay, director of many a Will Ferrell comedy including Anchorman, presents the best comedy about the 2008 American economic collapse to date. The screenplay is extremely intelligent and funny as it attempts to explain how exactly the banks ran the housing market into the ground because of greed and stupidity.Christian Bale was underused in this film as Michael Burry, not really given much to do, confined to one room for 90% of his scenes, but to be fair there wasn't much more he could have done due to the truth in the story. Steve Carrel was brilliant as Mark Baum, constantly driven by anger and cynicism. His motivation certainly rubbed off on me as I left the theatre rather riled up (in a good way) for unknown reasons.I don't know anything about banking, not even the basic knowledge the average person would know. CDO's are said a hell of a lot but I still have no idea what a CDO is. Because of this I feel that the problem I have is not necessarily the films fault. It tries to explain how simple banking is and how the bank complicated things through its choice of vocabulary and acronym's, but ultimately, it's narrative was lost on me as I feel it easily could do with some audiences.I would imagine that if I saw this film a second time and really got into the zone, concentrating hard, I would probably understand it. I would still recommend you see the Big Short (especially if your IQ is large) but I would also highly recommend multiple viewings as I think there is more to be learnt and understood about the economic crash the more times you watch it's Oscar nominated film. "},{"Title":"Unique in this segment","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" We all knew about the 2007-08 economic crisis and many movies are being made on it,The Big Short also joins the club,but in a different way.It tells the story prior to the economic crisis,strange!!The film revolves around three parallel stories of people who predicted the economic crisis and by going against all odds became the only happy denizens when economic crisis hit.In initial stages writers&director perfectly explained some terminologies in a creative manner,like Robbie explained sub-prime loans in a bubble bath and a chef explained C.D.O in his kitchen,to avoid uncertainty among audience.A very comprehensive and detailed screenplay writing.The way Christian bale's character Micheal burry set-up and introduced by telling his tragic past.Swift editing and intelligent writing made this part the most creative one.Director Adam McKay brought wildness and cynicism by filling some characters with eccentricity and cynicism which successfully yielded madness in film.Everyone performed will but Christian bale outperformed all,he is a quirky one-eyed iron-will man ,he performed with realism and Gave one of the best performance of this year.Till the final stages the film was furious with swift editing and pacy tempo.Barry Accord's typical hand-held and sudden close-up shots gave perfect cinematic experience.And in last stages director turned the film slow as the situation tensed as the economy was on the verge of collapse,and it delved us into pain. "},{"Title":"Global economics boring!! not quite","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is well worth a watch, based on the Michael Lewis book of the same title. It tells the story of the 2007 global economy crisis, of which we follow 4 main protagonists. Financial hotshot and hedge fund manager Michael Burry (Christian Bale). Bale does a brilliant job of portraying this socially awkward, math genius who spotted the crisis before anyone else did and visited all the major banks placing 1.3 billion dollars in total against mortgage backed securities. Perhaps the most interesting character of the film is Carell's (who was brilliant) Mark Baum, wracked by guilt as he realises that America's financial meltdown will leave millions without homes and jobs. Ryan Gosling puts in a stellar performance as a sleazy trader who's only interest is making money. Finally there's Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) Who plays a retired banker who hates the system. He gets enlisted by two rookies who stumble across Burry's notes but don't have the namestake to get a seat at the big banks, unlike Rickert. We follow these guys on not only a journey about them making millions and in Burry's case billions of dollars. We follow them on an educational journey of how oblivious and corrupt these organisations are.This film (although not a masterpiece) could be the most important of this generation. Largely because Adam Mckay does a brilliant job of explaining it. What makes this film work is the multiple methods Mckay uses to explain the story. He assumes the audience has no knowledge of the crisis what's so ever and this works because we're not plunged into a jargon filled, hard to follow film. We're instead immersed in a film that is informative, entertaining and funny. Mckay uses lots of techniques to help explain the terminology the most effective being that he breaks the fourth wall. He features celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain using fish metaphors and Selena Gomez simplify synthetic collateralized debt obligations (CDO's). These scenes really help bring all the films themes together whilst explaining any confusion around the terminology.Overall the plethora of A-listers used in this film were incredible. However the real credit should go to Adam Mckay for the way he constructed this wonderful film. Not least for the way he joined it all together at the end. Each character getting their moment whilst finishing on the moral side of this drama and the fact that still today despite what happened only one person went to jail and the banking industry hasn't changed. "},{"Title":"Eye opening with wonderful performances all round","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't recall a film that has been so confusing, then fascinating and then saddening as The Big Short. It's a remarkable film based largely on exact events (based off a book with a few name changes) it charts the beginning of the 2007 world financial crash and manages to explain it in such a way that everyone can understand how it happened (ask yourself, do you REALLY know how it happened?) With a superb main cast there are some wonderful cameo's here and there, used in such a brilliantly inspired way to explain the most complicated elements of the story. The method of filming is also interesting, it's almost like a "fly on the wall" documentary with cameras going in and out of focus whilst trying to keep up with the action, and occasionally the actors speaking direct to camera. This really keeps your attention and makes the film very enjoyable, even with the complex nature of the storyline.I thought this film would be for people of a certain age, who had an interest in the global economy as such, but there was a very diverse range of ages in the cinema which I found interesting, right down to early teens and everyone seems to enjoy this film immensely. Up for several Oscars I can see why and hope it gets the recognition it deserves for making something almost incomprehensible to the average person into something that leaves you with your jaw gaping and in shear disbelief the world could be allowed to work this way. Don't just take my word for it though, definitely check this film out for yourself and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Much of the Plot was Lost in the Language it Used","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went into this movie with some expectations. It won a bunch of awards, was highly praised, and is even a major nominee for best picture. After watching it I'd say that while it was well done, it's not deserving of the praise that it received. The plot of The Big Short is showing how the economy crashed in the 2000s, taken from the perspective of four different people who all see it coming. Unfortunately, most of the specifics of the plot are lost in the banking mumbo jumbo that the film uses. While this does add a level of realism to it, it's really not convenient for people like me. Even with the asides used to explain certain things, they still weren't enough. Often they used banking mumbo jumbo to explain the other banking mumbo jumbo, and when they didn't do that they used examples that aren't exactly easy to understand. Nevertheless, I caught onto phrases like "increased unemployment" and such, so I still got the general idea of the story. However, the plot never felt perilous to me. I never felt like some specific bad banking thing might happen because like I said I couldn't understand a word that anyone said. So what caused the unemployment increase is completely unknown to me. Plus I already knew the end outcome, so there wasn't really any tension. Nevertheless, I thought that the plot was done well enough that people like me were still able to pick up on it, just not specific things. The characters were surprisingly good. They felt like relatively real people, particularly Steve Carell's character. Most of the other characters ended up coming off as people who existed because they knew about the economic crash coming up. While they were developed reasonably well, they felt kind of pointless. Brad Pitt and the characters connected to him felt especially pointless. But maybe that was because I just couldn't understand the mumbo jumbo, so what they accomplished was unknown to me. Christian Bale's character was, although important, really not that focused on, probably because all his segments involved him sitting in an office chair blasting heavy metal music. He really didn't do much other than at the beginning of the movie. Ryan Gosling and Steve Carell's characters were really the only people who were important throughout, but they were also the primarily focused on characters. Something that kind of confused and bothered me was that all the characters did for entertainment was go to strip clubs. They all acted like the only form of entertainment was that. It's not that I think that sexual stuff makes a bad movie, it's just that everyone acted like there were only two things in the world: work and strip clubs. Has anyone ever read a book? Watched a movie? No? And it wasn't that just one or two characters did this, it seemed like everyone did this. Every banker in the movie pretty much. The sudden musical cues bothered me too. There would be crap music blasting for a bit, then someone would start talking and it would stop abruptly, then start again when they stopped talking. Then they'd play parts from the music video of that particular song and it was just confusing, and a little annoying too. The asides in the movie were used quite well. They weren't overdone to point of annoying, but they were often enough so that it felt normal when they happened. They all happen naturally too, and they were pretty quick. Generally I'm not a fan of fourth wall breaking, but this movie did it well. Overall The Big Short is, while completely overrated, a solid movie nonetheless. The plot is still understandable for people like me, the characters are good, and the asides are used well. Unfortunately the specifics of the plot were unclear, the lack of other (and more realistic) entertainment, semi-useless characters, and musical cues and choices weren't so great. In the end I'd still recommend The Big Short, but you'd probably enjoy it more if you actually work at a bank or study it more than I do (which I never do). "},{"Title":"The Big Short is Entertaining, Complex and a Great Movie","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short took boring subjects and made them entertaining to watch. This movie focuses a lot in economy but the director found a way to make this subject easy to understand by constantly breaking the fourth wall. Every time you get lost with all the Economy talking, they break the fourth wall and they explain all the things you didn't understand.The Performances: Ryan Gosling plays a likable mean funny guy, who just cares about winning money. Steve Carell is an angry man who hates everything. (He is the best in the movie) Christian Bale is a very awkward genius.You definitely have to see this movie. You will have a fun time and you will be thinking about it for days. "},{"Title":"Five-Word Review: Poignant, Sobering, Hilarious, Expertly Crafted","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay may be known for nothing more than Anchorman, Step Brothers, and The Other Guys. However, he subverts his image into Oscar nominated form with a look at the Housing Bubble Crash of the mid- 2000s. With a top-down look on the crisis as opposed to 99 Homes's bottom-up look, The Big Short stars Crazy Stupid Love's co-stars Steve Carell and Ryan Gosling alongside Christian Bale (The Fighter) and producer Brad Pitt (Moneyball), with celebrity cameos aplenty.This film is a must-see for everyone with even a minor interest in just what happened in 2007, along with Margin Call. Intelligently juggling laugh-out-loud wit with solid drama and a fascinating subject matter, this film's strength is surely its direction, condensing complex economic concepts such as Sub-Prime Mortgages and Synthetic CDOs into fourth-wall breaks, irreverent text on the screen, and subversive cutaways starring the likes of Margot Robbie and Selena Gomez. The story is fascinating due to its realism, which is pulled off perfectly with the camera-work, narration and use of images/other media cut alongside the film that render it very documentary-like. Not that it doesn't also inspire seething rage, at the fact that these people got away with everything they perpetrated.Which is where the characters come in. Despite recognising and correctly predicting the dangers facing the American housing market, and consequently the world economy, these men are, in Gosling's character's words, not the heroes. With grey morality and questionable decisions, the characters feel human, like real people might have been during this very time. Divided into three main interweaving story lines, Carell serves as the main character, his Mark Baum a moral compass desperate to retain his virtuous integrity in an increasingly amoral world, whilst his actions themselves become increasingly reminiscent of the very bankers he hates. He and his team, including Rafe Spall, grudgingly join forces with the standout character, Ryan Gosling's fabulously despicable Jared Vennett. Playing like a toned down version of DiCaprio's Jordan Belfort, Vennett is fast- talking, charismatic, and honestly the image one would conjure up when imagining the scapegoat of the banking crisis. With cheeky, witty narration that perfectly executes the fourth wall break, he constantly steals the screen. The Oscar-nominated Bale seems somewhat surplus to requirements at time, his story taking place far from the others', yet he is astounding nonetheless. His Michael Burry, with Asperger's, struggles to maintain human relationships but has a certain talent for numbers, and drumming. The final story concerns two young businessmen (played by John Magaro and Finn Witrock) who, desperate to play in the big league, enlist the help of retired, disillusioned banker Brad Pitt to try and get in on Burry's revolutionary scheme which Baum and Vennett are profiting from. The acting is superb across the board; performances are rendered incredibly believable and human, with Carell building on 2014's Foxcatcher with another genuinely fantastic dramatic performance.Good as it may be, The Big Short is not deserving of the Academy Award for Best Picture for 2015, though I am yet to see most of the other nominees. Albeit witty and mostly well-judged, the script often falls flat. Economic concepts will be handled and explained perfectly in one scene before the next scene features repetitive jargon that fails to hold much interest. This becomes a little frustrating, with the script's infrequent but irritating lapses into boredom hold the film back from its full potential - case in point, a scene with Melissa Leo falls almost completely flat. However, the ending makes up for the inconsistencies, a final piece of voice-over delivering a crushing blow of depression to the audience and some final biographic wrap-up text that finishes things well. All in all, a film with a lot that is really good about it, including acting and direction, whilst the utterly un-formulaic style is an endless joy to watch. Despite the bad in it, The Big Short remains a thoroughly important and generally very entertaining watch. 81/100. "},{"Title":"profoundly serious and funny at the same time","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first portion was a little bit confusing and awkward for me. After all I'm quite new to the details of many business terms. The good thing was that I learned a lot, and now I have a good idea on how did the American economy fall in 2008. Then, there was this quite complex film editing style, which I came to appreciate much later in the second portion of the movie, when the characters have become more developed. The pacing is actually quite fast in the first part, wherein they introduced one character, develop it a little, introduce another one, develop it, and then go back to the previously introduced character, develop it further, and so on. It didn't work quite well for me at first, wherein there were some jokes that doesn't seem to have a good timing, e.g. they turn out to be tepid and dry, but then when they do hit the timing, they can give you some really good laugh. What was consistent however was the strong performances of the cast. These became more compelling in the second portion of the movie since they were augmented by more developed characters and better pacing and editing style. We get to see more scenes that give room for contemplation as well, and we get to see some outrageous sides of the unique characters who have foreseen the disastrous results of the business craziness that was going on. Now, you get to feel really sad about the consequences of the fraudulent actions of the people in Wall Street, but then you really get to laugh as well with the unexpected twists in the situation and conversation such as the sudden appearance of Selena Gomez. For me, the unique mix of order and chaos in this film is an extraordinary feat for the film's director, Adam McKay.The subject matter is both relevant and important, given the current situation in the U.S., and despite being a little bit self-righteous for me, I think the movie was able to handle it very well. As a person not so familiar with a lot of business terms, I have become more familiar with mortgage bonds, and was able to use "CDO" and "synthetic CDO" in a sentence. At least, as an ordinary person, I might not be easily intimidated by these words anymore. Perhaps a second viewing will do the trick of appreciating the first portion more, but then all throughout you can say that its strongest side was the writing, and I think it is one of the best written movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Short or shot?","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Old radical tradition lives in Hollywood. But is this a radical film? Doesn't really matter, regardless of your other opinions, you should be interested in whether capitalism functions or not. It didn't in the years before the crash in 2008.We meet moneymakers and wannabe moneymakers, who are not interested in investments to build things up; just to build their own wealth. That's the problem and they even invest in a future financial breakdown.Most cynical of them all is Brad Pitt, who puts up a performance, just to show rotten the system is. The problem however is that we still don't understand what he's actually doing, although it is explained to us. Otherwise this would have meant a 9 rating. "}][{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film blew me away, the entertainment, the audacity (of trying to explain complex finance), the exuberance, the wonderful directing/ writing/ editing/ acting.The film simply "works".The concepts are complex okay and the style is frenetic and modern but at its heart is old-fashioned outrage at corruption and dishonesty, in the tradition of Frank Capra. It similarly has a heart, and sympathy for its main characters, showing them warts and all: pain-in-the-ass anger in Steve Carrell's characterisation, the Asperger-like Christian Bale, the slimy, self-defending Ryan Gosling.Director and joint writer Adam McKay has done a superb job in making the Financial Crisis both accessible and entertaining. Brad Pitt too deserves credit for producing (and playing a small part in) a film that must have initially met with scepticism in Hollywood. Thank God someone still tries to make films of substance. "},{"Title":"An idiot could see it coming.  The authorities chose to be blind.","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Categorize this as "docutainment." It explains the housing market collapse of 2008 with dry humor and aplomb. It was not difficult for a man with an expired bachelor's degree in statistics. I knew there was trouble when the radio public service announcements began back in 2003. "Home ownership in the US is at an all time high, but Hispanics and African-Americans are under- represented." Whoa! I talked to some of my banker friends, and they explained to me that a congress which grills ball players about alleged steroid abuse would not overlook an opportunity to investigate banks on charges of racism.Banks began rolling credit card debt into mortgages in order to get the uncreditworthy into homes of their own, all the while warning the borrowers not to rack up too much consumer debt in the future. Naturally, once into the new home in a middle-class neighborhood, they'd buy Escalades, Bimmers, Volvos, and then buy fancy rims for the Slade, and sure enough when the ARM rate went up, out went the For Sale signs. It became clear that too many new homes had been built, too many mortgages had been sold, and a bubble formed.The Big Short explains the gambling aspect of the bailout with a degree of humor that ought to scare the viewer. Ultimately, the taxpayers were put on the hook for a mere 5 trillion dollars. John Bird and John Fortune put a video on YouTube about the sub-prime crisis. "},{"Title":"This movie is why we should hate corporate America","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very good movie, but so frustrating. Shoot in a way I didn't expect, the talk to the camera angle with a lot of the main characters, but it's necessary to understand all the bank-talk. They added a little comedy with all the celebrities explaining to us whats what, instead of having the characters do all the explaining in random conversations. Amazing performances by Christian Bale and Steve Carell, especially the ending scenes where they in financial numbers kinda won, but in the real battle against the big banks they didn't stand a chance. The big guys on the top of the chain won and let the workers take the fall, which is a disgrace and the government did almost nothing after the biggest fraud of financial history took place. I feel like this review is more about the story than the movie, but it's such an incredible story and they did manage to get a great movie out of it. The movie includes a lot of talking, so you have to pay attention and subtitles are recommended to keep track. A great story, told in a good way, with a gallery of stars in the main roles makes this one of the best movies of 2015. I really don't want this story to be true, but it is, and that's horrifying. "},{"Title":"A Mess That Knows Exactly What it Wants to Say","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short basically follows three sets of people as they capitalise on a fault in the banking system that no-one else can see. Dr. Michael Burry discovers it almost by accident and hatches an outlandish plan to earn his company a lot of money by betting against the housing market. The banks are more than happy to take all his money off him thinking they've made a lot of money very quickly, blind to the disaster that's about to befall them. Word spreads and a handful of entrepreneurial individuals dig a little deeper and decide to follow suit. This play makes everyone hugely unpopular amongst their peers and bosses, until the inevitable collapse of the global economy occurs in 2008.Somehow Adam McKay manages to treat this subject matter with as much humour as seriousness. He pokes fun at the financial industry, while simultaneously highlighting the very serious repercussions the collapse had on every day people. The three sets of people who bet against the housing market initially do so to stick their middle fingers up at the banks and earn a lot of money in the process, but by the end they find their success bittersweet. They've all become ridiculously wealthy, and the corrupt banks have fallen hard, but all at the cost of millions of people losing their jobs and their homes.Unfortunately this lends to a very uneven watch that can't decide on a tonal direction. It throws around technical jargon that any other financial thriller, knowing full well the average person has no idea, so handy definitions and analogies are provided. However these definitions are full of tongue-in-cheek jabs and off-kilter presentation. The first one of note, for example, they cut to Margot Robbie, as herself, enjoying a soak in a bubble bath as she explains Sub-Prime Loans. It's obviously played for laughs and irony, but it also cuts into the momentum of the movie, and acts as a sudden injection of comedy into an otherwise serious exchange. I have to applaud it though, the comedy at play in The Big Short is a lot deeper and more meaningful than just some jokes thrown into the dialogue (although there's a handful of those as well).On the flipside, it grapples with some pretty heavy character moments. Mark Baum is half- heartedly attending Anger Management classes as he tries to bottle up his emotions after the suicide of his brother. Once this Big Short idea is lain in his lap, he becomes a bit of a righteous crusader trying to open the banks' eyes, uncovering corruption and dodgy-dealing as he goes. When he "wins" at the end, there's no sigh of relief or victory dance, there's just the crushing realisation that he's profited off the suffering of the poor by the banks' doing, becoming as bad as they were. Steve Carrell breezes through this progression masterfully. Christian Bale may be getting all the awards attention, but for me, Carrell was the shining star.That's not to understate Bale's Michael Burry though. Bale proves, again and again, that he's a heavyweight in the acting category. There doesn't seem to be anything he can't do. Here he plays Michael Burry as extremely socially awkward without hamming it up. He's a guy who prefers to be alone and shut the world out with metal music, but when he has to interact, he flubs and he stutters and is never quite sure of what to say. Also, Bale being Bale, the amount of preparation work he put into the role is admirable. He learnt drums and struggled through a knee injury just for the role.Ryan Gosling's Jared Vennert acts as facilitator to Mark Baum's role in the story. As far as character work goes, he gets the short end of the stick. His biggest job is to narrate the whole affair, which gives him the most comedy edge than anyone else. He's absolutely successful in that regard. Finally there's John Magaro as Charlie Geller and Finn Wittrock as Jamie Shipley who are budding traders struggling to get on the ladder, and enlist the help of the highly paranoid retired Wall Street trader Ben Rickert, played by Brad Pitt. Again Pitt doesn't get a whole lot to do, and Geller and Wittrock play characters driven more by naive ambition than a sense of doing the right thing. Although of course, they're hit with the consequences of everything by the end, when they walk into their dream trading room and it's empty and dead.The Big Short is a heavy watch. It's packed full of jargon and difficult and confusing concepts to get your head around (intentionally, by the banks). There's some great acting talent on display, bringing us deep and conflicted characters. It can feel a bit messy when it attempts to lighten the mood and maintain the audience's attention with humour, which doesn't particularly succeed, but the story it tells remains riveting. The whole movie acts as a satirical jab at the American finance industry and how, even after it's monumental f***-up, it's still ultimately working the same as it used to. I give The Big Short a very ambitious 8/10. "},{"Title":"High Quality Docudrama","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the part where I would say The Big Short is a movie about this or that, but I'm not sure if I can even call it a movie. It seems more like a high quality docudrama with some parts like something out of a Youtube video. It's very informative if verging on being too wordy.However I'm struggling to find more words for it. Its lack of a people centred narrative makes it hard to compare to other films. The film's main star is facts and hard history and that might be offsetting to some viewers. But to be fair I'm not sure how it could have been done differently.How do you make a movie about such complicated and hard to understand things without giving the audience a bunch of lessons? To the film makers credit The Big Short is a fun film, it certainly won't bore you, which is not an easy feat to manage with such material.It is well acted even if the actors don't have much to do and there are some emotional moments. I think the brightest gem in this is Steve Carell and he's very much the star of the film.Overall The Big Short is a good film, it's enjoyable, but there's not much more to say about it afterwards. "},{"Title":"Greatest Fraud Ever Told","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is so much politically economic -- basically everything -- from foreign policy to economic banking and trade policy that has raped the little guy and this film addresses one of the greatest economic frauds in the nation's history that is at the heart of much of the nation's woes. The Great Recession of 2007 had the potential to revisit the Great Depression on steroids. The film explained some of the complex minutiae of it defining the mortgage backed securities fraud that was at the epicenter of it and explaining some things like CDS (Credit Default Swaps), CDOs (Colateralized Debt Obligations), sub-prime loans and worthless mortgage backed securities through persons who knew the collapse would happen years before it actually did.This gargantuan complex fraud had the attendant potential to collapse not only the US economy but the world economy and even end the capitalist system as we know it. Yes, we were that close until the US government, funded by you and me, bailed out the too-big-to-fail banks that created the fraud and allowed their CEO's to collect bonuses to boot. They put the 99% in a sink hole leaving us to drown in the muck they created as they sped away in their yachts toting their money bags in hand. Their profits tricked down to nowhere but themselves.The film was not boring, it was precise and tried to explain the complexity of what happened and how trillions of bucks were lost, millions of jobs were lost and millions more homes were lost relegating many to live on the street at the mercy of what the immoral predatory banksters had perpetrated.It was and still, in part, is an unhappy time, a catastrophic time and no one from the Wall Street that perpetrated the greatest fraud has been jailed ... yet. Instead they were rewarded, collected their bonuses and knew that if the system collapsed again the government would come to their rescue and bail them out saving their banks moral hazard be damned.Every sector of our nation, I believe, bears the DNA of this gargantuan fraud. Wall Street knew Congress, which most understand is bought by Wall Street, would never let it fail and so it continues albeit with some changes dressed somewhat differently but still keeps the 1% fat cats happy knowing that Congress will be there to provide the safety net should the nation stand on the catastrophic precipice they create again. The Glass-Stegall Act of 1933 having been repealed in 1999 makes unregulated Wall Street economic anarchy a recipe for disaster yet again.The film is blood pressure raising but understanding what occurred is a must if we are to fix that which is so broken in our nation and by doing so never allow this to happen again. It can, I believe, be done but will NOT be done by electing the very same persons of the same political stripes that perpetrated the greatest fraud ever told. "},{"Title":"Terrifying, interesting, well acted, but a stylistic mess.","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Moving right along with these Best Picture nominees. According to IMDb, The Big Short is about:"Four denizens in the world of high-finance predict the credit and housing bubble collapse of the mid-2000s, and decide to take on the big banks for their greed and lack of foresight."As A horror fan I would like to say that this may be the most horrifying, frightening movie I have seen in the last few years. By the end of the film, I was considering pulling all my money out of the bank and burying it in the back yard. Only to realize I have no money, no back yard, and plenty of student debt to fuel the fear. This is the kind of movie that makes people who hide their money in their mattresses seem like they have the right idea.The cast is great, everyone delivers solid performances from start to finish. Although, I have a feeling that there is something in Brad Pitt's contract that he can never play a bad guy. Even in a movie that is chiefly about terrible people being slightly less terrible than other terrible people, he manages to take a righteous stance in the movie, which felt a bit disingenuous (similar to his character in 12 Years A Slave as "Only Non-Garbage White Guy")Solid as the story and characters are in the movie, I definitely had some issues with The Big Short. Primarily, the editing of the movie is bizarre. In what is, essentially, a drama like Spotlight but the movie is cut like a Bourne movie. Quick cuts, zooms, shaky cameras, the whole thing. It doesn't make any sense, and only served to confuse me a bit in the beginning of the movie. It also cuts away to seemingly random images from time to time, and it has something of an art-film quality about it.There are some weird comedic moments in the film as well, like cutting away to different famous faces to "dumb down" some of the more complex things that the movie deals with, which are honestly just as foreign to me now as they were before Selena Gomez told me about them. That said, I didn't mind the comedy in the movie, as troubling as the story is, it helps to go through things like this and be able to laugh at least a little.I've always been a fan of unpacking horrible things through comedy, which is probably why I was such a fan of Jon Stewart on The Daily Show, or Jon Oliver's new show Last Week Tonight. Those elements here did help to lessen the blow a little bit, while still shaking me up in the process.Honestly, the movie works, and is worth seeing completely. It's not impossible to get passed the stylistic choices that are a bit bizarre and take in an incredibly disturbing and frightening story. One thing I appreciated was that, at certain points, the movie would stop and remind you that this was in fact real. The level of corruption and fraud at work is definitely pretty unbelievable at times.Worth the watch, and I could see it taking an Oscar or two home. The movie is nominated for Best Picture, Best Directing, Best Editing (yikes), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Supporting Actor (Christian Bale). While I'm not ready to call this Best Picture by any stretch, I'm sure it will take somethingFor those keeping score in my reviews, The Big Short's total number of people who are not straight, cisgendered, heterosexual, white, males who make significant contributions to the plot progression is a whopping.... zero. Though, Christian Bale has a glass eye and "awkward social interactions".You may argue, in this case (I suppose), that they were trying to keep it as real as possible, but at more than one point in the film the characters address the audience saying that "this isn't EXACTLY how this part went down", so I'm not buying that argument. "},{"Title":"An Archetypal Black Comedy","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay's adaptation of Michael Lewis' very readable recounting of the financial meltdown in 2007-8 hews closely enough to Lewis' book, but the spirit here is more manic and hysterical and the dour worldview that Lewis infuses in his work is amplified, focusing on the dire effects the meltdown had on the average citizen--there's a despair here that makes this an archetypal black comedy. McKay and his co-scenarist Charles Randolph change the names of some of Lewis' oddball personalities and some of their motivations, the most notable being Ryan Gosling's jaded, arrogant Jared Vennett, based on the book's bond salesman Greg Lippmann, a minor but important character, who here serves as the narrator best suited to the cynicism the film stews in. McKay serves up his story with all the cinematic tricks he can find, with lots of freeze frames, blackouts, whizzing cameras, newsreel footage (the frenetically entertaining editing by Hank Corwin helps tremendously), characters breaking down the fourth wall to address the audience and real-life celebrities brought in to explain some of the more complicated points of the sordid financial products being marketed. But he hits his comedic marks most of the time and when the film needs to emphasize the tragic nature of the crisis, the shift is effectively jarring. The powerhouse cast (in addition to Gosling, there's Christian Bale, Steve Carrell and Brad Pitt) is uniformly excellent--Pitt, as a reluctant colleague to two young bumbling novice investors, is often hilarious--but it's Carrell's troubled investor, here known as Mark Baum, who really shines: with a delicate commitment in his eyes, Baum sees beyond the immediacy of the debacle into the soul-sucking Wall Street machine and agonizes over its effect on modern society. Thanks to McKay's pointed anger you feel Carrell's realizations and sense of resignation on a more cerebral level uncommon in most modern performances and it helps the film achieve an unusual power. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A Well Made Historical Drama","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 2008 Financial Crisis is, without reservation, one of the defining moments of American history and a seminal life event for those alive at the time. As such, it was just a matter of time before someone made a movie about it. That time has now come, and I must say the film is quite a fascinating piece.This movie sets out to explain the complicated web of corruption and greed that led to the Crisis. It does this about as well as a movie possibly could--perhaps the one thing that doesn't get as much explanation as it could have was the term "short", which could be a bit of wonkish jargon for some viewers. To "short" a stock is of course to bet against it--this was explained, but with it being in the title and so much a part of the story, it could have been highlighted a bit more.Still, that one qualm aside, the movie proceeds to tell its tale with with dramatic poise. The acting is superb, with Steve Carrell turning out the performance of his career. Christian Bale also shines, along with the rest of the cast in a tale that is extremely well crafted and a movie that is well produced and directed.All in all I'm going to give "The Big Short" 9 out of 10 stars. It does what it sets out to do with great success. It is not necessarily the most enjoyable of this year's Best Picture nominees, and that teensy bit of accent on drama at the expense of joy leads me to detract one star. But despite that, this film is a masterpiece, and one that every American should watch at some point. "},{"Title":"Interesting look at how the rich get richer..","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay making a black comedy about the Wall Street crash? Im already sold. Throw in Christian Bale, Steve Carrell, Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt.. how could you go wrong? The film was a very interesting look into the corruption of the government and how the rich take from the poor in order to get richer, it is something we have seen before but with it's own style and the subject matter interests me greatly, so naturally i found a lot to like and enjoy about this film.First off, i swear marketing wanted us to believe this was going to be the Christian Bale show.. i mean don't get me wrong he did a good job in this film and as always is a joy to watch, but the film wasn't focused around him as i expected. We follow each of these characters in different ways. Ryan Gosling adds the energy in the vein of a Jordan Belfort type character (i will touch on that later), Steve Carrell doesn't provide as much of the comic relief as i thought, he adds more of an emotional core to the story which i was surprised to see from a character played by an actor of his calibur. Don't get me wrong the dude is funny, but he is someone who has suffered a great loss and who is an angry guy but you can see why. In my opinion he gets my pick for best performance in this film. Brad Pitt's character was necessary but with him he just sort of felt like halfway through the movie he randomly joined in, disappeared for a bit and then came back for the finale. But i like seeing him in these Brad Pitt type roles where he is so cool and suave about everything and always so damn likable!Now, the film does feel like at times it copies a fair bit from The Wolf of Wall Street. The fast-paced opening where Ryan Gosling introduces what is going on to the audience is exactly like how it happened with that film which is the main comparison to Jordan Belfort. That being said McKay employs his own style and we see the fast paced editing take effect where we see certain images pop up and clips etc. But some of it is very random and feels kind of out of place. For example, random celebrities are brought in at random times to explain certain plot points and whilst humorous, it probably would have just made more sense to have one of the existing characters explain it to us. But then again, it would just draw more WoWS comparisons i guess. But the insight into this corrupt world was as interesting as ever and it is sort of set out as a heist movie of sorts with a knockout soundtrack. It establishes the subject matter in it's own right and i liked that, so i will give it props.In the end, the film entertains a lot more than something like Ride Along 2 and is worth checking out on a Sunday afternoon when you want to relax and chill out. I will say see it for sure. The acting is great, it's captivating and it is a film that keeps your mind working afterwards and that is exactly what i wanted from it, so it didn't disappoint. "}][{"Title":"Absurd, Crazy and Frigthening!","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" (Review of The Big Short, seen 23.01.2016 in Path, Arnhem (NL))Who would have thought that Adam McKay, the crazy mind that has given us Anchorman and Step Brothers, would end up being an Oscar-nominated screenwriter and director celebrated for his work on a relevant and essential film about one of the worst financial crises? I certainly had not seen this coming even though I am a big fan of the Anchorman series. Nonetheless, that is the case and let me start off by stating that all nominations and awards McKay and his team will win will be thoroughly deserved!The collapse of the American housing and the subsequent worldwide financial crisis doesn't really seem like the obvious topic for a crazy comedy. McKay doesn't care one single second! The Big Short is absurd with the absurdity and uncontrolled flair for storytelling that we have come to know from the Anchorman films and that setting is a surprisingly good fit for the otherwise very serious (and rather boring) topic. In McKay's hands the financial crisis has never been funnier, better explained or more frightening. Humour is a great tool to process matters beyond our limit of understanding and McKay proofs to be fully aware of this in one of the best films I have seen in years.Having praised McKay for his writing and directing, the entire cast is equally as good. Steve Carell is in my eyes the main character here and he builds upon his performance in Foxcatcher last year and Little Miss Sunshine earlier to show that he is indeed so much than his iconic Anchorman character Brick! Carell succeeds in portraying a man whose personal issues are both affected by and affecting his actions in the increasingly bizarre reality of what's happening in Wall Street. His few scenes with Marisa Tomei are brilliant and are examples of the film's powerful dramatic assets.Christian Bale, who earned an Oscar nomination for his role, is balancing the fine line described in Tropic Thunder as going "fully retarded". While I think Carell's performance is more deserving of nod, Bale's performance is probably a better fit for the supporting role category and his nod is well deserved too. A modern version of Rain Man he is the man who foresees the disaster years in advance but constantly fail to make his ideas acknowledged. Bale perfectly captures the character's descent into an increasing anger that makes his glass eye more active, his drumming more hectic and the volume level on his speakers sky high. Where Carell's Mark Baum represents our nervous discomfort regarding the turn of events, Bale's Dr. Michael Burry is our anger towards the constant ignorance towards the few people who sees what is happening.Ryan Gosling is the most comedic asset as the Wolf of Wall Street like Deutsche Bank salesman functioning as the narrator of the story as well constantly breaking the fourth wall (along with a lot of the other actors as well btw). The last man on the poster is Brad Pitt, but his main contribution is as a producer as his role barely have any screen time. The story is difficult to understand in the sense that the events are so ridiculous and inconceivable, so it is only natural that the storytelling shares this level of craziness. McKay utilises a wide range of cinematic tools; apart from breaking the fourth wall on several occasions these include an extremely diverse soundtrack (from hip hop to Phantom of the Opera), rapidly edited montages of photos and clips from popular culture and three amazing explanation scenes, which I am not going to spoil here. It's such a clever choice by McKay though as the explanations are very clear and simultaneously function as sarcastic comments on the world of today.Whether or not The Big Short can follow up on its recent PGA Award for Best Motion Picture only time will tell, but for now it remains my favourite for now (having only watched that and The Martian of this year's big films to be fair). "},{"Title":"A derivative film about breaking the bank, also breaks the fourth wall too!","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Paramount film tells the story of how the sub-prime crisis lead to a banking crisis and collapse in 2008, followed by a world-wide recession. As the trailers show, the tale is told by following a few odd-ball characters connected to the financial markets, who do not accept the orthodox perceived wisdom.The story starts with Michael Burry a physically and socially handicapped fund manager who obsessively investigates the figures and numbers in the property market. We viewers are given explanations, via the fourth wall, that help us to understand the subject, whilst also being entertaining. We discover bankers have bundled up mortgages, called securitization, and then sold them, the derivatives, as assets. However these are bundled, and re-bundled, and include mortgages known as sub-prime. These assets were sold as AAA (triple A) but in reality were not. The sub-prime tranches (parts) diluted the AAA tranches. Michael Burry realizes this and invests (basically by betting against this) to earn money if there is a default. Others also discover this and also invest likewise.Michael Burry, the odd-ball financial-whiz is played by Christian Bale. His character is not a normal Wall Street guy, physical deformity has made him socially awkward, so he spends all of his time in his office, crunching numbers, as he listens to loud rock music. Sadly, the loud music, we also get some unnecessary rap music later too, detracts from the enjoyment of the film.Another flaw of this film, and it is a massive one, is the appalling camera work. The use of the fourth wall, so characters can give viewers explanations, is essential for this film, and was done very well. No criticism of that. Or for some real-life stock-footage. It is everything else that is dire. The camera swoops and swings wildly and out of focus. The filming is at times very poor, often fairly poor, and thus this also makes for some very uncomfortable viewing. This film is interesting because of it's subject matter, but not for film quality. To see great filming, go and see 'The Revenant', also out in 2016. the comparison between the two films is night and day. Christian Bale is very good in his role, losing himself in it, as he did in 'The Prestige' (2006), and also in 'American Hustle' (2013) in which he was unrecognizable. In the recent 'Black Mass' (2015) gangster film, Johnny Depp used fake contact lenses to portray Whitey Bulger's piercing light blue eyes. Christian Bale is not made up to show his physical handicap, which is a shame, as it thus makes less of it to us viewers. Certainly a rich fund manager could pay for top quality, and no doubt he did, but for us to see, and feel, his pain, a more physically obvious handicap would have been better. This is not to slight Christian Bale who acts well to show his physical handicap, and his resultant Dr Sheldon Cooper-like social awkwardness.Steve Carell, who was excellent in 'Seeking a Friend for the End of the World' (2012), here plays another uptight banking figure who also becomes aware of the financial situation. In this film, Steve Carell actually has a much bigger role than Christian Bale. It is Mark Baum, played by Steve Carell, and his firm, who take us on the field-trips to Florida and Las Vegas, standout scenes btw, where we see the reality of the situation. Marisa Tomei, in a small role, plays well the part of the wife Cynthia Baum. Miss Tomei, so very recently in 'Christmas with the Coopers' (2015), here in a very different role, does some very moving scenes with Mr Carell.Ryan Gosling, previously in 'The Place Beyond the Pines' (2012), plays Jared Vennett, who is also in banking. Although not the biggest of parts, his character is also one of the main players in the story, and it is through him that we are also told the story.Brad Pitt too, has a small, but decent role, in this film. He is also a Producer too through his Plan B Entertainment. John Magaro and Finn Wittrock, in minor roles, play small-time fund-managers also involved in the story. Byron Mann shines in his one scene, as do Max Greenfield from 'New Girl' and Al Sapienza (Mikey Palmice from The Sopranos) in theirs.This film tells a true and sorry story. Banks over-lent and over- borrowed, then they churned their assets. When the sub-prime market collapsed because of fraudulent over-lending, the contagion spread around the world. Sadly, there is no mention of the contribution President Bill Clinton and President George Bush made towards this.Viewers should not be deterred from viewing by lack of financial knowledge. The film does it's best to explain matters in as simple a way as possible. This it does well, sometimes with some very visual examples. Thus we can grasp the general ideas fairly well and so understand the financial crash of 2008, the effects of which we are still feeling today. So this educational film is well worth seeing. It does have some humour too. Those who like comedy, and also desire a primer on the capitalist system, should dig out an old DVD of the classic 'Trading Places' (1983) which gives some explanation as to how markets trade in concentrated orange juice and pork bellies. Others may also enjoy the more recent 'Margin Call' (2011), which is a serious film that also deals with the same 2008 bank crash. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Foresight","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Foreseeing the burst of the housing bubble that triggered the Global Financial Crisis of 2008, three sets of players in the high finance world elect to "bet against the American economy" and reap the benefits in this offbeat mix of comedy and drama, based on a book by 'Moneyball' author Michael Lewis. There are some truly zany touches as characters break the fourth wall and announce that certain events "didn't really happen that way" and there are interesting interludes in which celebrities such as Selena Gomez explain some of the finer technical terms required to understand the story. The film also has a complex editing design with montages of pop culture, scenes noticeably cut short and certain images paused for extended periods, all of which works to make the film anything but the didactic take on the situation that it so easily could have been; by contrast, it is more engaging than 'Inside Job' and it does a better job elucidating what exactly occurred. The crux of the film though are the characters who experience inner conflict over whether or not they are really 'good guys' by profiteering from the GFC. The characters are not explored in extreme depth (give or take Steve Carell as the closest the film has to a protagonist), however, they work well within their function in the plot, provoking us to evaluate whether there are really any heroes in the film's real life inspired story. The most remarkable aspect of the film though is how frequently funny it is. It is quite rare for a comedy (which 'The Big Short' primarily is) to spin such a passionate indictment of injustice. "},{"Title":"What to do?...with money :)","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like this movie, I watched it yesterday and still I have one question. So... How to manage my money? I haven't got a lot of, but I would like to know that my money is safe. After all these details I realized that morons are everywhere, I cannot trust anybody. Maybe just spend them...no money no tears. Because if all these financial managers in the whole country don't understand the situation, so what about me? I am just a person without special finance education. I really like how Christian Bale acts. Facial expressions and gestures were very appropriate. But I don't like how Brad Pitt acts. Whether the role itself is not expressive, whether something else. "},{"Title":"Complicated, scary, powerful, compelling","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are many ways that movies can tell the story of financial markets - but they are all complicated and they are all scary. While "Margin Call" (2011) was very tight and very serious, "The Wolf Of Wall Street" (2013) was a sprawling comedy. "The Big Short" - which examines how the sub-prime mortgage scandal brought about the financial collapse of 2007-2008 - is somewhere in between. It tells a particular story, based on the Michael Lewis book "The Big Short: Inside The Doomsday Machine", but it uses a whole variety of techniques to make the complex terminology understandable and entertaining: a documentary style, flashy camera-work, text on screen, straight-to-camera dialogue, and bizarre cameos set in a bath tub, a kitchen, and a casino.It works thanks to the skill of co-writer and director Adam McKay and a good deal of fine acting with the best-known faces being Steve Carell and Christian Bale, who are both terrific, and Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt, who are both excellent. But it is a terribly male film with all the female characters being small parts as wives, regulators or strippers. The talented Marisa Tomei is wholly underused. A leading female personage from the book, Meredith Whitney, is not even mentioned. Also it is an odd movie because the viewer kind of wants the the three groups of lead characters - the ones attempting to 'short' the market - to be proved right, but that means that Wall Street is corrupt, the regulators are asleep, and millions of citizens are going to suffer.This is powerful and compelling cinema and the bits of text that conclude the film are utterly chilling. They include the observation:"Five trillion dollars in pensions, real estate, savings and bonds disappeared. Eight million people lost their jobs and six million their homes. And that was just the USA. Banks took the money the American people gave them, used it to pay themselves huge bonuses, lobbied Congress to kill big reform, then blamed immigrants and poor people. And only one single banker went to jail. Some poor schmuck from Credit Suisse." "},{"Title":"Irritating Movie That Thinks Its Audience Is Dumb","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" takes a fascinating subject (the collapse of the real estate market that instigated the global economic collapse and recession in 2008) and then spends its entire running time apologizing for boring its audience. It tells the viewer early on that ordinary folk like us (the audience) and the bros who made the movie don't understand any of that stuff anyway, so they're going to make it interesting. Interesting means we get shots of Margot Robbie sipping champagne in a hot tub while she explains some economic term to us. Despite the filmmakers' attempts to make themselves one with the audience, the tone of the movie is ingratiating and condescending, and the whole thing is annoying to the extreme.It's not like this subject matter hasn't been addressed before. The film "Margin Call" was about something very similar, but it managed to present the material straight and as if it really mattered without making its audience feel like dunces. "The Big Short" tells us here and there that the economic collapse was devastating to average people around the world, but it treats it mostly like a joke. It's like "Wolf of Wall Street" lite. And it commits what for me is the ultimate movie sin -- it telegraphs to us in flashing neon every emotion we're supposed to be filling at any given moment, never once giving us the opportunity to react ourselves.The cast is pretty good, but they're asked to do things like pause and speak directly into the camera, the effectiveness of their performances hampered by poor directorial choices. Steve Carrell and Christian Bale are the standouts. Ryan Gosling suffers the most from the film's jokey tone. And Brad Pitt once again uses his producer credentials to insert himself into a film as the character who gets to lecture someone in the movie (and by extension the audience) about the moral ramifications of whatever the film's topic happens to be.I would rather have just watched a documentary about the housing collapse. It might have given me more credit for having a brain in my head.Grade: B- "},{"Title":"Economics for Dummies","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "Everyone, deep in their hearts, is waiting for the end of the world to come."The Big Short is such a refreshing and surprising film because it manages to perfectly balance a difficult subject matter and make it entertaining. It is perhaps one of the most important films made this year reminding us of the worldwide economic breakdown that began in 2007 and left millions of people without their life savings. Many of us don't understand much about economics or how it works, and that is why we have been so eager to forget what happened and continue moving on as if nothing ever happened. This film refreshes our memory and reminds us of what a terrible crime was committed during the housing bubble collapse. The film centers on the few men who recognized the problem early on and took advantage of the situation. The Big Short is a dramatic movie, there is no doubt about it, but it also manages to include some comedic moments by breaking the fourth wall and including pop culture figures to explain some of the more complicated financial terms. It does it in a brilliant way and it's been a while since I've seen a film break the fourth wall as well as this one did. I've seen many documentaries on this subject, but this film manages to explain things better and open our eyes to the dangers we might face again in the future because we've ignored the real problem and seem to be repeating the same mistakes once again. Mckay manages to infuriate and open our eyes while entertaining us at the same time with an engaging film thanks to a witty adapted script which he helped co-write with Charles Randolph.It's not the first time that a film based on a Micheal Lewis novel manages to draw in an audience that doesn't necessarily need to comprehend the subject matter. You could be clueless about baseball, but in Moneyball the story still managed to engage a worldwide audience. The same can be said about this film because the economic terms are explained in a simple way. That is why I believe this is one of the most important films of the year because it allows even those that never seemed interested in economics to understand how it still affects them. It is an eye opening film for those that felt uninterested in trying to understand what happened in 2007. If there is one film that audiences should see this year then this might just be the one (not for its technical or artistic value, but for the importance of its subject matter). The Big Short is Adam McKay's dramatic directorial debut and his background in comedy is what probably helped this film become more accessible. The man who brought us Anchorman, Talladega Nights, Step Brothers, and The Other Guys, now brings us a thought provoking film. He's received two Oscar nominations (directing and writing) for his work here and what an impressive film he has crafted. The film is heavy on dialogue, but the script is so perfectly written that each character in this film becomes memorable. The performances are outstanding which simply proves what a key element writing is for an actor. It was refreshing to see Ryan Gosling back again after his retirement from the big screen for two years. He plays the charismatic character he could easily play in his sleep, but he is still a delight to watch. He delivers a solid role, but out of the four big names it was Steve Carell who stood out. He gets the best dramatic moments and lights up each scene he enters in. Brad Pitt has a smaller role but he makes perfect use of his screen time with an understated performance. Christian Bale is the only actor who received a nomination for his performance in this film and it is well deserved. He plays a socially awkward character and totally sells it. There are films where there are so many big names that no one really gets to shine, but this film manages to make every character memorable thanks to the wonderful script. "},{"Title":"Unfolding truth","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Inspired from a book by Michale Lewis who also wrote Moneyball, I adored the film. One of the finest piece of writing this year and definitely worth recognition. Kudos to Adam Mckay's style of narrating the story (very linear) but yet very effective unfolding of events, coming from a director who is known for comical films, this is a big leap ahead. Script/ Screenplay: 9/10. You have a tough competition with Spotlight. Performance: This film deserved actors and it's an apt ensemble of the cast the director got. Some films are more about the story and screenplay and not much about the actors. It's one of those films. Editing: Wow, I mean. Phew. 9/10 Cinematography: 8.5/10. And I really thought the camera was guiding me the entire story, so a JOB WELL DONE by Barry Ackroyd. Direction: 9/10. "},{"Title":"Amazing substance meets great style: an huge entertaining lesson.","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The big short is the mother to how turning a complicated subject into perfect entertainment. The film is just amazing.The screenplay is incredible, wonderfully paced, it just has an amazing rhythm, to the point, wile i would love to see more of the characters, i see what we need. Turns something complicated into something that can be understood with such style that makes it perfect. The characters are amazing, and the ensemble cast could talk for 2 hours about tiles and you would love it! Everyone just gives killer performances, but Christian Bale and Steve carell are my favorites. Its a very smart film, that is also quite funny with great humor, that gives you a lesson with amazing style, a great soundtrack, a killer editing, and a fast pace. That's how you do it. its impossible not to like this film. And in the end, the conclusion is that people don't think about things when everything is OK, because they all believe if things are good today, so will they be in 100 years. And its always like this: great things happen, terrible things happen, terrible consequences, people learn from it and resolve things, things are good again, people forget about what just happened, people make the same mistakes all over again. Go figure. "},{"Title":"But making money is supposed to be easy!","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Liberals love to talk about how easy it is to make money on Wall Street. So, as a retired bond salesman (from 1994), I enjoy average Americans seeing actually how hard it is to make money. Those guys were in agony as they risked a greater power unwinding their positions BEFORE they could make a huge profit. Great movie to show that, although 99% of moviegoers probably walk out saying they hate banks.Note also, the greed of the stripper and other average Americans who wanted those hated mortgage loans. If we gonna hate the banks who packaged the mortgage backed securities, how's about hating the average Americans who took out those poor quality loans, thinking they were going to make money? "}][{"Title":"Good factual story","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well directed movie which tried to explain the collapse of the USA financial market which rippled its way round the world into a global depression. The movie was careful to explain some of the jargon to us in a way that's reasonably easy for us to understand. But this isn't a movie for everyone - it has limited appeal.It's too simplistic to put all the blame at the door of the big banks &#x96; but they do deserve a major chunk of the blame. The SEC and the Ratings Agencies share an equal amount of blame for allowing this situation to become the monster that it did. It's a fact of life that in any disaster, there are winners as well as losers.Capitalism does have its faults &#x96; make no mistake. But for now there isn't a better option. It is evolution at work. It's natural and right for all of us to want to better ourselves. But once greed rears its ugly head, then it gets nasty. As always, it's the have-nots that suffer the most &#x96; losing their jobs and struggling to keep a roof over their heads through no fault of their own. That's the reality and sadness of the whole situation.It is horrendous that very few people were brought to answer for their actions &#x96; there was definite criminal activity. There were many people who weren't doing their jobs correctly in order to have prevented this debacle. Sadly, white collar crime isn't treated quite as seriously as all other crimes of theft and fraud by poorer people. But we all have some blame to bear. If we didn't give all our money to the Investment bankers looking for the best return on our dollar, then these situations wouldn't be as dramatic as they were. Society as a whole has to bear some blame too.I did struggle a bit towards the end with exactly what was happening with these Investors and their funds, but just about hung on. Not enough emphasis was put on the real sufferers &#x96; the lower class poor public. People who lost their jobs because the banks collapsed and loans and investments to small businesses dried up. That's the REAL story. Even today people are still suffering from the after effects. It's a dog eat dog world &#x96; make no mistake.I did like the fact that a lot of the events were based on actual events. Superbly acted and well directed. A very good effort. I was somewhat surprised that others in the theater laughed out loud when some of the characters used profanities in the workplace while at tense meetings....c'mon, grow up people - it's not funny to hear people use the F-word. It was used in context of a serious situation and because of the urgency of what was happening in the financial world. The people laughing were adults - not just College kids! Grow up. The words were there as a part of the reality - not for laughs! "},{"Title":"Great surprise package from Adam McKay","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The very idea of Adam McKay, director of Anchorman and Step Brothers, making a film about the financial crisis in the mid-2000s brought on by the uncontrolled build-up of the housing market, is one that left me scratching my head. Centred around such a serious subject, I just couldn't see what McKay would bring to the table.Well, I was totally wrong to judge McKay before seeing The Big Short because he does one hell of a job with this film. Feeling almost like a docu-drama at times, The Big Short is informative while packing a small yet effective emotional punch thanks to a few great performances. I left the cinema feeling both anger at how greed and ignorance let the collapse happen, and fear at how easily it seemed that it could happen again.After discovering that the housing market was extremely unstable in 2005, Michael Burry (Christian Bale) found a way to bet against it so that profits could be made from its inevitable collapse. The trouble was that none of the banks that Burry took his proposal to believed him and, thinking the market was safe, happily accepted his money.Burry's actions attract the attention of trader, Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), who soon realises that Burry was right and decides to make some money out of it too. Bennett's dealings lead to other interested parties, including Mark Baum (Steve Carell), a hedge fund manager, and retired banker, Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), who helps two inexperienced investors make a profit from the situation.Now, I'm no expert in economics or the housing market and even after seeing The Big Short, I still can't claim to be. This film uses a lot of terminology that could lead to the audience getting lost but Adam McKay addresses this issue rather brilliantly with some cutaway sequences that take us away from proceedings to explain a word or phrase that people may not understand.It would be easy to have one of the main cast do this however, McKay was thinking a little bit more outside the box. There are three scenes, each containing a celebrity cameo; Margot Robbie in a bubble bath, Anthony Bourdain in his kitchen and finally, Richard Thaler and Selena Gomez playing a spot of Blackjack. I didn't think these would work at all but they genuinely did, though Margot Robbie in a bubble bath was the one where I was listening least.What impressed me most about The Big Short was just how entertaining it was. McKay, who co- wrote the film with Charles Randolph, brings his comedic elements to proceedings yet it's the surprisingly good drama, including a pretty hard-hitting finale that made me really appreciate just how good McKay's work is here. It's totally out of his comfort zone and he knocks it out of the park.The Big Short also boasts a cast that contains four top leading men who all bring their respective qualities to the film. Christian Bale, Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell and Brad Pitt are all very good in the film but for me, Bale and Carell are the stand-outs. Bale really sells the eccentricity of Burry and Carell, who impressed me massively in Foxcatcher, captures the humanity of Baum well, a rare quality for a banker.The Big Short is a bit of a dark horse going into the awards season and, while I don't see it winning any of the big awards, it sure is a film that deserves your attention. Both the energy of McKay's filmmaking and the performances keep the film ticking over at the perfect pace. "},{"Title":"McKay experiencing life after Ferrell","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I read that this is the first film Adam McKay has done without Will Ferrell as the star. That's an interesting piece of trivia if you think about it. No one could deny he's had a golden run thus far but he's also had one of the funniest men ever to exist in the entertainment industry to write characters for. Until 'The Big Short' that is. Now suddenly he's writing something unlike anything he's done before, a film dealing with the financial crisis of 2008. Try making a comedy out of that they would have said. Well he took on the challenge. Is it a flawless film? Absolutely not. But is it one hell of an effort? Yes, that I'd have to agree with.The biggest problem McKay must have faced in writing and directing this was the need to get a lot of very technical and very, to put it frankly, boring information across without alienating the audience and making them feel stupid or having them lose interest. He tries some neat little tricks like having celebrities play themselves in cameos that give a metaphorical example for the topic at hand, or even going as far as saying that we as an audience are supposed to feel stupid listening to the Wall Street lingo, because that's the way they want it to be. Does it work? It does, but it only really covers up a small portion of the film. I'd imagine a lot of viewers would have been left very confused as to what was going on at certain points in the film. An unavoidable aspect of the film.The film relies heavily on its characters to push through a lot of the jargon and create comedic relief so that the whole thing doesn't feel too heavy. While these characters were based on real people, they certainly wouldn't have written themselves in a story like this. Four Hollywood heavyweights Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell, Christian Bale and Brad Pitt were brought in to bring these characters to life. Bale has been nominated for Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards. He was good but I feel he lacked a lot screen time and his performance might be a touch overrated due to a glass eye. The real stand-out of the bunch for me was Carell. He gets far and away the most screen time of the four and uses it exquisitely. He was nominated last year for 'Foxcatcher' in which I didn't think he was overly impressive. I think this year he deserved a nomination more than he did for that. Sadly he missed out, perhaps not enough make-up? Sometime I wonder if that's all the Oscars care about in the acting categories.In total the film was nominated for five Academy Awards. Bale's one, Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film Editing. Of the five I'd say the only one it has a real shot at (and probably will indeed win) is Best Adapted Screenplay. Every other aspect was very fine, but it feels like one of those cases where the film should just be happy to be nominated for certain things - perhaps Best Director in particular.All in all though, if you've got the patience and the brain switched on and you're in a bit of a learning mood, it's a film you'll enjoy. If you're just after some lighthearted fun to unwind at the end of the day however, I'd suggest staying away from this one, it's a full on film. It won't be to everyone's tastes, but if it is you'll likely love it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining despite being a mine field for the financial novice.","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is about the banking crisis in 2008 and how a few individuals predicted what was going to happen and acted accordingly.Back in 1993 there was a series of chess matched live on TV between Brit , Nigel Short and Russian , Garry Kasparov . Despite not knowing the rules or having ever played a game of chess I was mesmerised by these matches. This film was the same for me. I definitely enjoyed this film but despite them trying their best to explain what was going on it wasn't sinking in . It doesn't matter what you do to jazz it up , banking is and never will be sexy , even if you do involve Brad Pitt and Selena Gomez ! Despite that , this is a fairly entertaining film. I thought it might go down the Wolf of Wall Street route and focus on the excesses of the bankers but it concentrates more on their stupidity and then their absolute gall in getting away with what they did. I like the quirky way the story was told even if I still didn't understand all of it but that probably says more about me than the film. "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is a great movie with terrific performances that show the behind the scenes look at the housing crisis that triggered the housing crisis in the USA. all performances less one are on point and poignant I was entraptured by the goings on behind the scenes, the questions and the research and the duplicity of banks, governments and regulation to deny the error of their ways..Christian bale, ryan gosling and mr40 year old virgin are standouts the only character I found off key was brad pitt who had the that stoned looked to his character much like his stoner looking performance in world war Z. I recommend this movie if one wants a thinking movie . "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Depiction of a Horrendous Disaster","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay's drama directorial debut and it is one not to be forgotten. It is amazing how source material as mundane as bank fraud, defaulting loans, and other boring financial elements can be transformed into something that is gripping, comedic, and morally horrifying all at the same time. My hat is off to you Mr. McKay. How in the world did the same guy that directed every Will Ferrell film from Talladega Nights to Anchorman 2 bring us this riveting and palpable (that word was used in the film) historical film? The housing market crash occurred when I was in 8th grade and I did not fully understand the severity of what was happening around me at the time. All I caught onto was the economy was in shambles and people could no longer pay for their mortgages. The Big Short shined a whole new light on the economy crash of '07 for me and opened my eyes to the evil that was behind it all. The whole idea of how something like that had never happened before, how it was fueled by fraud and greed, and how it affected the entire world economy was almost too much to handle for me while I was viewing it. The movie tore me into two pieces: 1) I am laughing at the wit and bluntness of the actors interactions with one another (Steve Carell was impeccable) 2) I am disgusted by the greed of people. I was utterly astounded at how a movie was able to evoke such different feelings out of me. The Big Short's style was one that I compare to The Wolf of Wall Street and The Office (and yes, I do mean the t.v. show starring Steve Carell). Between the blatant continuity errors, voice over narration, forth wall breaks, and depiction of real life crime I felt like I was in a Scorsese film. However, with the shaky camera, business setting, and "documentary" vibe I felt like it was The Office. The overall style of the movie was something that I found very creative and entertaining. With the quick edits and cuts, sound mixing, and chaotic camera work it created a sense of urgency and stress which I assume was their aim so the viewers could experience what life on wall street and in the big corporate world is like. Many of the performances were stellar and absolutely made the movie. Steve Carell's portrayal of the morally conflicted and brash banker was the best performance of the film and I am surprised he did not get an Oscar nomination; I liked him better than Bale. Even in the midst of all the numbers and talk of money the film managed to give the characters depth and background and not just use them as ventriloquist dummies to convey information to the viewers. Christian Bale's performance of the socially awkward genius was pretty good too. Given it is based on true events and people made it a little awkward to watch Bale's character because the majority of his performance is just him: he has minimal interaction with other actors and absolutely no interaction with any of the other leading cast. Not to say that his performance was not terrific, it was just awkward to watch at times. Given as amazing as I think this film is, it did have some short-comings like all things. Primarily it dealt with convoluted source material. Trying to put something as complex as banking and financial agreements into understandable dialogue is near impossible and as good of a job as this film did at that, it still, for me, was not enough for me to understand what was happening all the time. So much information was presented to the audience that sometimes it made my head spin; but it was a necessity for the film to progress with any sense. The film makers know this so they tried to do comical and creative ways to teach the audience about such topics ( I wont go in depth so I don't ruin the surprise) and did a decent job at it too. All in all it was a terrific film that I will watch more in the future and recommend to anyone with half a brain and an interest in recent American history. "},{"Title":"You Gotta Hate the Banks","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know what I was watching was an original, cynical look at America's financial institutions criminally fraudulent rip off of the public but I was still left a little perplexed at the films end. Outstandingly directed, authentically written and superbly acted, there is no doubt that 'The Big Short' is worthy of the high praise that it has been receiving from the voices that matter. Perhaps I went into the cinema with my mind already made up that I was going to find it difficult to enjoy this film so I have made the mistake of not fully engaging properly with the narrative. As good as the movie is, it is a lot to take in when your only knowledge of the banking system is casually walking up to the ATM and expecting it to spew out its precious contents. It does though, highlight the unbelievable turn of events that brought down the American economy that resulted in the Global Financial Crisis in the first decade of this century.The story is told through the eyes of a selection of financial 'experts' and how at different times, predicted the credit crisis and the downfall of the American economy. It's another who's who of Hollywood that sensationally entertain us with outstanding performances from each of the big name cast members. Steve Carrell is the standout as a man on the edge. His character, Mark Baum, is genuinely disgusted by what is unraveling before his eyes and cannot fathom that such banking fraud could actually happen. Christian Bale puts in another thoroughly professional performance as the eccentric Michael Burry who seems to of been the first person to indicate that a catastrophic financial fall is imminent. This all leads to the systematic betting against the banks. Throw in Ryan Gosling's zealous appearance and Brad Pitt's subdued role and it becomes a highly watchable film. Each character takes advantage of their foresight and goes about exploiting the banking institutions overconfidence. It's just great to see somebody take on the greed that motivates the system.Well known comedy film Director, Adam McKay (Anchorman 2), has lent his expertise to a script that amusingly and sarcastically points the finger at everything that was wrong with America and perhaps the world at the time of the financial meltdown. It's the perfect ploy for such a production that's main content is still very raw in the minds of all those that have been affected; turn something that has been described as "the crime of the century" and retell the story to the masses but with a resounding cynical twist. Highlight what went wrong, who was to blame and then show the audience just how amusingly criminal it all was. McKay with the help of Charles Randolph have uniquely devised a narrative, chock full of linguistic dialogue that will most scratching their heads at what is being said but knowing that this could bore the average viewer, both writers have originated a simple way to breakdown the Wall Street 'lingo'.Somebody like me may need to see 'The Big Short' a second time to get the full value of this uniquely told film. It does't take a genius to know you are witnessing a good bit of cinema. It is craftily written and fabulously directed, allowing us all to take a look back at our recent past, learn from the mistakes and come to terms with what really happened in the build up to the GFC. "},{"Title":"When all you can do is laugh .......","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short - as I see it Dr Manju GuptaThe Big Short is a film about human greed and degradation. It's a film about an eccentric, one eyed hedge fund manager, Michael Burry (Christian Bale) who sees the housing loan bubble burst before anyone else and decides to profit from it by shorting or betting against it. Its about a slickster, Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling) who hears about these default swaps at a sleazy party and hard sells them for a hefty commission. It's about a seething but righteous Mark Baum (Steve Carell), and his team, who get wind about it through a misplaced phone call, and join in, driven by revenge against the banks. Its about two young and naive fund managers Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Witrock) who stumble into the information and enter the rat race under the tutelage of a very 'organic' Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) who has retired from the game in disgust but knows how it's played.What makes this Wall Street film about the 2008 financial meltdown different from others is its unconventional presentation. The director adds color to the monotony of men in suits by daring to use unconventional ways to explain financial jargon. The narrative is broken by hilarious cameos in which celebrities, playing themselves, define some of the complicated terms like sub prime mortgages and collateralised debt obligations. Does all this make you feel bored or stupid? No, I am not asking you, Ryan Gosling posed this question to me as I was watching the film and proceeded to introduce the sultry Margot Robbie who explained the terms while taking a bubble bath. Cheeky yes, but also rare ingenuity!The high profile stars live up to expectations and give excellent performances. Bale's eccentricity seems as real as Carell's smoldering contempt. Gosling's smarmy portrayal of the conscience dead Wall Street shyster is matched with Brad Pitt's brilliantly underplayed avatar as the disillusioned retiree. The naivety of his protg is endearingly genuine too. But its the actors in small roles who shine and make the film what it is. The supercilious banker with his condescending smirk as he puts down the two neophytes, the over helpful assistant who smilingly tolerates Gosling's ill treatment, Carell's well etched team mates, the lady entrusted with credit-rating who has a vision problem, the sleazy home loan mortgage agents, an especially ruthless and repulsive bond trader, the 'law - abiding' tattooed tenant all excel in their craft. There are no small actors here, just small roles.McKay, best known for directing subversive comedies accomplishes a great feat as he pulls out all his tricks, from dizzying hand-held camera moves, peppy dance numbers, quick shots of random people to pole dancers making the movie an exhilarating joy ride. Humour lightens up a dark tale of deceit by having characters break the fourth wall and talk directly to the viewer either to confirm what is happening in the film or to contradict it. But the moral tide running beneath all the laughs is palpable. Five trillion dollars in savings and real-estate value is vaporised as the banks continue to act in an astonishingly ignorant or criminally abusive fashion, leaving millions of Americans jobless and homeless with global repercussions. As the protagonists stifle their disdain for the bond-market creeps, the moral ambiguities cannot be ignored, for they have invested in default swaps, which would pay off only if the market collapses.That it would lead to destruction of such mammoth proportion was probably not foreseeable but the human wreckage is their doing too.A strong contender at the Oscars this year, this film based on a book by the same name can simultaneously outrage and amuse, entertain and educate, infuriate and fascinate and keep the viewer engrossed in a story filled with bond-trade babble. The Big Short, based on true events of an economic catastrophe is devastatingly funny. It will appeal to the average viewer because human greed is not limited to Wall Street and sometimes it's better to laugh than cry. "},{"Title":"Tells people what they want to hear but in a well done way","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One has to hand it to "The Big Short" that it tries to package the financial crisis in terms that most people can understand. It successfully re-creates a variety of real-life characters who saw the sub-prime crisis coming, profited from it - and felt bad about profiting from it. Its strength is that it is very driven about its subject matter. Its weakness is that it takes an ethical stance that doesn't allow viewers to truly reflect on what they're seeing. The brilliant "Margin Call" was all about the atmosphere of the crash. It didn't try to explain it all, it dwelt in the moment, and is therefore still the defining film on the subject. This film is about putting the blame solidly on the side of the banks. And it does so in sometimes annoyingly over-acting their ignorance and greed.However, everyone was and is greedy. The characters shorting the markets didn't do so just because they wanted to teach the banks a lesson. They did so primarily because it was an opportunity. A stripper who obtains five homes and a condo through sub-prime mortgages on speculation to resell them at a higher price is just a source of information here. But in fact, characters like hers were just as responsible for the crisis as the banks who were selling those loans. That aspect is completely lost in this film. If you take a 5% interest loan to buy stocks, can you really blame the bank if you don't make 5% returns? I'd love to see a film that calls for people to act responsibly in what they're doing financially. Without greedy borrowers, there could be no greedy lenders.From an investors' perspective, neither the book nor the film tell anything that was not previously known. One would presume that a crisis which cost virtually everyone money would be familiar to the general public to such an extent as to render lengthy explanations about what CDOs are obsolete. My biggest take-away from "The Big Short" is that, apparently, it strikes a lot of people as ingenious when synthetic CDOs are explained by Selena Gomez at a black jack table. Most Americans are involved in the financial markets through their pensions, loans, insurances, properties and stocks, so this "making it easy" should feel somewhat insulting to them. But it seems the author and film maker were right on the mark with that approach, and THAT is the worrying message to me - everyone is STILL in the haze and needs that kind of schooling."The Big Short" is not a masterpiece, but the effectiveness of its storytelling makes it probably the most important film among this year's Oscar contenders. "},{"Title":"Oh the irony","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie even if it made me feel somewhat uneasy. Any film,doc or book that explains how the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) occurred I tend to be interested in.My main issue with the movie is that it portrays that main protagonists as heroes but the reality is they profited from the collapse of the financial system and all the pain it subsequently caused. The irony is that the credit default swaps (CDS) that they purchased (essentially going short on the collateralised debt obligations (CDOs)) were a main cause of the collapse of some of the big financial institutions. By purchasing CDS s they were essentially betting that the mortgage instruments (CDOs) would fail . Of course once the big banks got wind of what was going on and began to realise how bad these sub prime mortgage instruments were they started furiously buying the very same credit default swaps.Subsequently once the CFC occurred large institutions such as Lehman Brothers failed as they couldn't make good on all the credit default swaps they had sold.I feel the movie glossed over this aspect so its main characters came out looking like they took on the big banks for the little man. This was never the case. They did it for their own benefit pure and simple and this money stayed in their own pockets along with their investors.Apart from this it was well acted, good story line if somewhat slow in parts. A solid 7 out of 10 "}][{"Title":"The Big Short","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film tells the true story of a bunch of people who saw what no one else in Wall Street saw. They trade accordingly, betting against the American economy. However, their profits come at a very high price to the American public."The Big Short" has three separate story lines, as three different groups of people bet against the banks. I find that slightly confusing at first, and that is not helped by the complicated financial jargon. Fortunately, they do explain the jargon well, using entertaining dialogs by cameo actresses. The three separate story lines make the film very realistic, but I find it less engaging and captivating than other financial crisis films. However, it is one of the few financial crisis films that touch on the disastrous impact on the public, which is a nice touch. "},{"Title":"The Big Short","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short, is based upon fact and deals with the people and businesses involved in the recession we had in 2008 as well as the major housing bubble that attributed to this recession and the failure not only of the big major banks, but Wall Street itself, and the many businesses and individuals who were affected because of this. Because this is still such a recent event, I am sure that it is still fresh in everyone's mind who is reading this review. It was all you would see on the television and print news back at the time and to say that it was not a big deal would be a great understatement. Based on the fact of enormous greed and people who had no scruples and to some extent having no clue what they were doing all these businesses were shut down and many people went bankrupt and not only lost their homes, but everything else they had as well. The whole situation was investigated in a fascinating and yet powerfully disturbing way in Michael Moore's documentary, Capitalism: A Love Story. At the time I saw the film, I claimed that it was probably the most disturbing film that I had seen that year, more so than any horror film, or thriller that had come out of Hollywood and I still stick with that statement. With the film adaptation of The Big Short, director and co-writer Adam McKay brilliantly blends fact and real events with comedy and entertainment and brings us one of the most entertaining films of this past year, but also one that will leave you furious and totally indignant with the whole banking system and everyone who was in charge of this massive mistake that was done out of sheer greed and stupidity. I think to a certain extent that you should have some knowledge of Wall Street, or banking rules and terminology to get all the facts as well as the jokes that are so important to the script and to the film itself. Then again, I know that financial literacy is not particularly a popular thing, nor is it something that you are taught in school unless you pursue post secondary education, but I think the film still manages to initiate the uninitiated in the whole world of banking and the endless language that they have seemed to have made their own with their own words and jargon to describe everything in words that most people would never understand (and maybe in a sense that is part of the point of doing so). The film will still make sense to those unfamiliar with all this and prove to be a still vastly entertaining and powerful film experience. Adam McKay who is mostly known for his comedies with Will Ferrell which range from being somewhat decent to sometimes unwatchable has created a brilliant piece of work here. The dialogue is sharp, fast and snappy and the characters are all extremely interesting and captivating to watch. They all have their own set of quirks and eccentricities and yet that is part of what is so fascinating to watch about them. There are also some wonderfully done celebrity cameos here and the use of quick editing and jump cuts is done so well here that is is one of the best uses of editing that I have seen in a film this year. The screenplay with it's razor sharp dialogue and it's blend of comedy and fact does a fantastic job of doing the unthinkable which is making a film on an event like this and making it interesting to viewers who would normally never care about this type of thing and end up being one of the best and most entertaining times at the movie of this past year. The film is funny in many ways, but at the same time it never forgets that the subject matter that it is dealing with is because of what happened to innocent people that it is both tragic and heinous what happened and how these bankers got away with all of this. You will walk away from this film entertained, but at the same time you are furious about it all as well and I mean that strictly as a compliment. The acting ensemble here along with Spotlight and Straight Outta Compton, is some of the best of the year and any nominations for the acting, writing, directing and editing are totally and completely justified. This may not be the easiest watch for those unfamiliar with all this, but I ensure that if you give it a chance you will definitely be surprised at what a great film this was. Alas, if only The Wolf of Wall Street could have been this good. Nevertheless one of 2015's best films. "},{"Title":"8/10","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A mesmerizing film. A directorial triumph that manages to overcome standard film issues with a craft that is remarkable. I still have no idea what happened technically in the 2008 crisis, but the filmmakers found a way to mold me into the narrative anyways and make me understand and care.This film is filled with energy. It is kinetic and absorbing, it is self conscious, it breaks the fourth wall, but it is never over bearing or excessive as something like "Wolf of Wall street" was. It always gives you everything in the right dose and keeps you stuck and enchanted to the screen for its whole duration.This film is one that truly succeeds because of the greatness of the sum of its parts, molded into one big flowing narrative that is kept together by fantastic work by Adam McKay. This was a true vision. He integrates everything seamlessly and you can't tell where the drama starts and the comedy ends, it's just one big package and it is a marvel to experience.One thing that really struck me during the film was how well it is sound designed and how incredibly the sound is used to tell the story. Furthermore, what a soundtrack! I think this is the best we've had since "Dazed and Confused". Other than having killer songs, all of them are integrated into the film brilliantly and they are used to a fantastic effect.Now of course the performances are great. I don't need to tell you that, we're talking about A+ talent all around. Yet still, Christian Bale manages to rise above this shaft of talent and steel the show, proving once again he is just the man.I will have to admit that the film gives a little too much for the audience to swallow. Now I am the first that loves and praises filmmakers for trusting their audience, and they certainly do here and it pays off. Yet, I think there is a limit to everything and whilst the film never made me feel stupid nor did I ever fall behind to what was going on thanks to the narrative, there would be a scene once in a while where I would just phase out completely. People would just start talking numbers and names and would never stop for the scene and I have to admit that I would have like to get a little deeper understanding of some of the parts.Still, I understand how difficult it must have been just to put forward some of these concepts and I applaud the filmmakers for it. This is one of the year's best movies. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch,thanks to Adam McKay","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is directed by Adam McKay and stars Steve Carell, Christian Bale, Ryan Gosling, and Brad Pitt. First off, for a movie about banking, it would to be boring but it's the exact opposite of that. It was funny at times, they explained the big words of banking in a great way that I won't spoil and when it needed to be serious, it was serious. This was credited to the director Adam McKay. Adam McKay directed this movie is such a different and fun way, which made this movie fun to watch. He past movies were all comedies but he directed this drama great. Worthy of a nomination at the Oscars. All the acting was amazing by everyone. The two stand outs were Steve Carell who can do drama great and Christian Bale who is just always great. Overall The Big Short was a fun movie to watch thanks to the acting and Adam McKay who directed it amazing. Definitely check it out in theaters. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Movie Expose Corruptness Eisenhower Warned Us Of","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Did you lose everything in 2007? Probably not, but you lost a ton anyway and here's a movie that sheds some light on how much that was. Oh yeah, if your tax money, and lots more printed just for the heck of it, didn't shore up the international banking economy you'd be looking at all your former bank account balances at ZERO.Adam McKay and Charles Randolph's "Big Short" is a Cliff Notes like distilled version of what was going on in the American Banking Industry in early 2004. Things had become so obviously "short" that few could actually see how criminal the whole system had become. But, like in everything...there were those who actually saw how corrupt things were. And, there were a few of these "visionaries" that gambled on the fact that there would be a day of final honesty whereby the fake rated investments would have to revealed for the worthlessness that they really were.This is a movie that is ruthlessly brilliant. It really doesn't hit you over the head with the fact our whole banking system is totally corrupt...nope, it slowly allows you to question it and come up with your own conclusion. Kennedy knew something when he began to print money not tied to a system that was hopelessly based on criminal quackery, but, wait, he was assassinated. And years later we have this. We also have a generation of hard working Americans whose nest-egg was obliterated in a few days. A government that is perpetually at war, as well as not subservient to the average citizen, because the warning Dwight D. Eisenhower gave us wasn't really taken to heart and didn't include the Federal Reserve. This movie exposes the greatest threat to the American Dream and it ain't got a damn thing to do with Communism. To bad there wasn't a second American Revolution, one that finally righted a sinking ship. This movie makes that fact woefully clear and it is absolutely brilliant in that it is highly understated and wonderfully entertaining. Alan Grenspan should by any measure of a honest system be in prison and if he sang like a canary the depth of it would be so profound our monetary system would have to be rebuilt from the ground up instead of letting guiltless millions bear the brunt of a totally fake monetary system propping it up. You can't write fiction this unbelievable, but you can get a movie that distills it down to two hours. Take note: our current economy has nothing except intention backing it up. Let's hope China never calls our bluff. "},{"Title":"For a Few Dollars More","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" (Rating: out of 4)This film is recommended. In brief: A dark comedy that informs while it cashes in on its serious subject and sees it only for its entertainment possibilities.GRADE: BWhen I first saw the trailer for The Big Short, I thought, "What a depressing and boring topic for a film! What possessed these filmmakers to put all their time and effort into an global event that hurt so many people financially and has them still reeling from its long-lasting effects? Nobody is going to want to see this movie! It will bomb big time!" Well, I was partially right. Despite all of its critical praise, the movie is not breaking records at the box office. The subject of our economic collapse as a nation is more gruesome and messier than any Tarantino blood-fest, far more realistic and deadly. Moviegoers are staying away in droves. But the film is sharp, witty, and informative, that I must admit, so on that count, the filmmakers were absolutely right. The subject needs our attention...and fast! While The Big Short does have some difficult plotting issues that are hard to comprehend, the film succeeds with its imaginative retelling of the financial meltdown of the world market.Swaps, synthetic stock options, CDO equity...it's like speaking a foreign language, and I must admit, I still don't understand most of the economic jargon, even after the film tries to dumb down the financial rhetoric in the cleverest of ways by using celebrities to simplify the actions on the screen. Appearances by Margot Robbie discussing stock trading in a bubble bath, Anthony Bourdain cooking day-old leftovers, and Selena Gomez at the gambling tables of Vegas are wonderful parodies that help explain the global crisis that befell us in 2008. (I wish these smart distracting "short" infomercials were used more often throughout the film as the topic of stock market trading is a dry discussion point.)Solidly directed by Adam McKay, The Big Short takes its serious theme and analyzes the repercussions of the "Greed is good" mentality that permeated Wall Street then (and now) by focusing on four central players and their roles in masterminding this international Ponzi scheme. The casting of this quartet of stockbrokers is marvelous. Christian Bale plays Michael Burry, a frantic man-child genius, better equipped to deal with numbers than people. Ryan Gosling is Jared Vennett, a slick money broker who discovers the housing market bubble to his advantage. Brad Pitt adds more interest as Ben Rickert, a jaded former stock broker who distrusts banks and businesses. Especially effective is Steve Carell. The actor portrays a fictional Mark Blum, and walks the fine dramatic line between anger and guilt in his skillful interpretation of one of the few businessmen with a conscience. Fine supporting performances are given by Finn Wittrock, John Magaro, Hamish Linklater, Rafe Spall, and Jeremy Strong in smaller but pivotal roles.Special mention goes out to the rapid-fire editing by Hank Corwin, whose quick cuts of images add a stylish pop quality to the proceedings and an intelligent screenplay by Charles Randolph and the director establishes its despicable well drawn characters and makes them surprisingly compelling and likable. Everyone of these corporate high rollers is in it for the money and makes a profit on everyone else's misery and financial downfall, but we moviegoers are caught up in their illegal shell game, a plan that doomed the housing market and crippled the banks and mortgage companies worldwide.The Big Short is well made and compelling, although its script still was unable to clearly elaborate the complexities of its topic. The film settles for the smaller picture, a behind-the- scenes look at the traders and their game, rather than delve into the larger ripple effects that created financial ruin to many families caught in the mortgage debacle. That aspect is glossed over rather quickly. But the film does serve not only as a reminder of what was, but also a warning of what may come...once again. Let the buyer beware!Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com "},{"Title":"The truth hurts and isn't actually funny","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Why this is considered a "comedy" has me wondering. Was "Too Big to Fail" considered a comedy because it was about the same timeline and events. There were many funny moments to me but neither of these are comedies. A comedy is where I go and expect to laugh out loud, roar and tell stories about the jokes. Not chuckle a few times and remember the events and dread of the years in that business. "The Big Short" wasn't meant to be a comedy but more like a serious look a foolishness and greed that gets into everyone. There are many funny moments but not meant to be considered a comedy movie like "Trainwreck" or "Sisters". Comparing those movies in the same category is like saying "Mad Max: Fury Road" is a musical competing with "Pitch Perfect 2". Both are fun but alike at all. Why some get put into certain categories is silly.At any rate. " The Big Short" is a great film. I know it because I was a serious money manager way back when all this happened. "},{"Title":"Rating-AAA","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Steve Carell leads the motley crew of a cast in this thoroughly entertaining flick that would not disappoint you but may leave you a tad disturbed . The plot revolves around the ignominious financial crisis of 2008 and a sequence of contemporaneous events involving a diverse set of individuals thriving at different levels of the food chain in the world of finance.The film progresses at a comfortable pace . There is no ostensible rush in the screenplay. There is dearth of humour - be it situational, dry or in the form of sarcasm. Moving on, the editing is quite impressive making the movie viewer friendly. The characterization is for me the most remarkable aspect of the movie. Notwithstanding the plethora of characters in the movie , almost the entire lead cast is graciously introduced to the audience . There is a depth to each character, that adds credibility to the dialogue (whenever delivered). The story itself is quite engaging and plays upon the thematic elements elegantly. In the acting department , there is no much to complain. For me the pick of the actor is Steve Carrel , who may be called the operative protagonist of the story. Christian Bale does justice to his part . So do Gosling and the rest of the cast. The movie , however, falls short of capturing the entire procession as brilliantly as it could have . Some sequences are brilliantly shot and yet others seem under-treated. Towards the end of the second half of the movie , there are some loose fragments which disturb the general design of the film.I would end this review by the saying that movie brilliant and extremely intelligible for a film dealing with fairly confusing financial concepts . "},{"Title":"Adam McKay is a genius","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Six men saw what no one else did. The Big Short manages to balance three stories and weave them together seamlessly, without any feeling of its characters being undercooked or overindulged. Paul Haggis meets Aaron Sorkin, and in my opinion, The Big Short's screenplay is better than the one Sorkin actually wrote this year. McKay and Randolph take complex economic concepts and explain them to us with both humour and gravity. The random "here's X to explain it to you" scenes are utterly brilliant and work extremely well as a break from the frenetic film and as a quick lesson in an important scene. Throughout the film, people use complex language and then another character follows up with "so you mean like this?" Its not forced because that's how people actually talk. The third wall breaks are hilarious and charming and entertain whilst also instructing us. Even when the real life story is changed to make the movie work better, characters acknowledge the change to the audience. It shouldn't work, but my god it DOES. The result is a highly interactive film that makes learning fun! The story takes huge sweeping ramifications and represents them to us with powerful scenes - take Burry's mentor demanding his money back to represent the many people who would have felt that way in real life. One man and his kids is powerful enough to convey to us the dire situations of soon to be millions of Americans. A pretty young compliance woman tells her ex-boyfriend's brother "we don't do much because our funding got cut", which is representative of so many overseers who got lazy. But even more impressive is the humour, which never suffers at the expense of the drama or vice- versa. Never going for cheap laughs, McKay instead constructs scenes that are hilarious by their very premise. Something about Carrell and a stripper discussing sub-prime mortgages during a lap dance is way funnier than anything that happened in Ted 2. Recurring jokes about one of Carrell's co-workers who always likes food and Jarred's vanity have their place and never dominate importance scenes. The screenplay is likely second only to Spotlight's this year, and only by a hair. Beside the economic concepts, we have a story about very different people, and the two who are treated with utmost respect and depth are Burry (Bale) and Baum (Carell). Bale completely vanishes into yet another chameleonic performance, the one-eyed, Aspergers, quiet genius. It is unfathomable that this is the same man who played Bruce Wayne and Patrick Bateman. You can see plainly written across Bale's face the remnants of a childhood marred by his disfigurement. When he says he cannot deliver compliments properly and then demonstrates, it is extremely uncomfortable. The look on his face as a group of people whisper together while he sits alone speaks volumes. Steve Carell goes back to back with his absolutely brilliant performance in Foxcatcher last year to portray Mark Baum, an raging, depressive shatterpoint of a man whose sheer disgust at the broken system is the highlight of the movie. We find ourselves tensing up for one of his outbursts just as his on-screen friends are. Ryan Gosling is flawlessly cast as the vain, pretty boy Jarred Vennett, Brad Pitt has a grave and dignified role to play as Ben Rickert and of the extended extra cast, Jeremy Strong stands out as a great foil to Carell. Its unfortunate to see Marisa Tomei and Melissa Leo completely wasted in tiny roles.McKay's direction is without a doubt some of the finest of 2015. His choices are utterly brilliant. He introduces Bale's character as a loner by splicing him swimming (the ultimate solo sport) with him messing up team sports as a kid. He introduces Carell's character as a raging loudmouth by having him barge into a therapy session and speak over everyone, only to storm out at the first distraction. He establishes the suicide of Baum's brother brilliantly in a two second scene that speaks volumes. Throughout the film, his use of visual aids (dictionary definitions, quotes), fast cuts of people shouting, lingering takes on email inboxes and steady takes of empty trading rooms are all hole-in-one choices. While people are on the phone to people off-screen, he flashes a picture of them so we remember who it is. McKay is the master of context-building. The end of The Big Short is grave, almost horrifying. Brad Pitt nails a short monologue about what his young companions are celebrating and the mood shifts very suddenly. The final text reads almost like 12 Years A Slave in terms of the injustice you feel. A true story hasn't affected me in this way for quite a long time. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and educational","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First let me say that this movie was hardly a comedy for me- i didn't laugh even once. Though the atmosphere is light and playful, the subject is very serious. Adam McKay did great to adapt the novel and direct this film- it has great phase, explains the complex banking terminology and the events as they unfold. Yes, the events unfold 4 years- Michael Burry caught eye of the oncoming catastrophe 3 years before the actual collapse (which tells you enough about the government oversight, banking employees competence and rating agencies honesty). One guy with a computer and a M.D. did better to foresee the future of the US than all of the above - outrageous is too soft of a word to describe. As many others said - this is a must see educational experience! The whole cast did great to portray the characters involved- they are all profit driven individuals, but to blame them for capitalizing on others financial incompetence is hardly fair- they even tried to warn the people (motives for which are questionable), but got turned away by the "serious" media outlets. What else were they supposed to do- post their prediction on the Huffington Post?? Great movie experience through and through. "}][{"Title":"Interesting Narrative Film with Documentary Elements About the Housing/Credit Crisis of 2008","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Part of the challenge of presenting this kind of material which is quite complex at its core is that the audience needs to understand certain elements to fully grasp the story. The core of the narrative of "The Big Short" is how a few people in finance "bet" against the conventional wisdom that property values would never fall and as a result made $100 million's during the Financial Crisis of 2008. The film attempts to accomplish four things.1. Define the terminology used by Wall Street and Finance regarding the buying and selling of mortgages, such as "sub-prime mortgage", "CDO", and "tranches". 2. Explain the housing situation prior to Fall of 2008, in particular how sub-prime mortgages became, for a brief time, a means for Wall Street banks and investors to make huge profits. 3. Introduce us to some unlikely Wall Street insiders who saw the flaw in the conventional logic and a means to make a financial killing at the expense of the market. 4. How they were able to convince Wall Street to take their bets against the housing market. Even after having read and seen documentaries about the crisis, I do believe this is still not easy stuff fully understand.The solution in "The Big Short" was largely solved by narrator Ryan Gosling as Jared Vennett who chronicles the history of the mortgage-finance sub-prime mortgage world while introducing us to the different characters involved who "bet" against the housing market. However, several times the story stops, and interspersed animation or a celebrity detail certain points. For example, Margot Robbie explains what sub-prime mortgages are in a bubble bath, and Anthony Bourdain describes "CDO's" using bad fish as an analogy. Also, they give some of the history of the characters involved, which for some reason I felt was less interesting. This occurs for about the first third of the film, which I found a bit irritating. I think I would have preferred the characters of the story explain these terms, such as Gosling does, as part of the narrative rather than stopping the show and bringing the focus on someone else. And I would have largely left out the histories of the characters, except as it relates to their interests in finance. Also, just about every time Michael Burry (Christian Bale) enters a scene, we hear endless heavy metal music. After the terminology is defined and the characters' histories are out of the way, the story starts to finally move along. Michael Burry (Bale) was one of the earliest financial wizards to realize the housing market was essentially a lie. Billions of dollars were being invested into sub-prime mortgages, housing loans given to people who more often than not, could never pay them back. Mortgage agencies were able to sign sub-prime housing loans and re-sell them to Wall Street who would in turn sell them as tranches to investors. Burry decides to bet against the housing bubble using the capital in his hedge-fund. He convinces banks to take his "negative" investment, and they agree to take millions of dollars, believing they've made easy money. They invest in so-called "credit default swaps", a kind of loan insurance. If a loan defaults, the holder of the swap makes the equivalent of the loan in return as long he paid a premium beforehand. So if Burry invests say $50 million in default swaps, he could potentially make $100 millions if the loans ever default, which they did. Part of the story is how Burry's investment strategy in the default swaps proliferates to other Wall Street insiders. The major characters portrayed follow Burry's suit lead, including Mark Baum (Steve Carell), Jared Vennet (Gosling), and eventually Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt).Overall enjoyable, probably a "one-watch" (my term for a single viewing). Once the story kicks in, the film gets better and more compelling as it goes along. For its intentions, it does a reasonably good job of explaining the complexity of the Housing Market Crisis. By mid-way, a lot of the emotion becomes part of the story, and I found those aspects more compelling than Robbie in her bubble bath. Don't misunderstand me, I like Robbie in the bubble bath, but maybe that scene is for an entirely different film. "},{"Title":"watch it just for Christian bale superb acting","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Though intense and passionately filmed, the decidedly speedy pace compromises the merit of both the script and the direction. Rushing through important details, audience members are given no breathing room and no time to process the information launched at them. The star cast of the movie is awesome,which made me watch the movie and they didn't disappoint me..Christian bale was awesome i am huge fan of him,the way he gets adapted to his characters is awesome.The movie is a bit lengthy though, it could have been trimmed a bit..overall its an awesome movie,would recommend it to watch at least twice to understand it completely.. i would rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Some of it was beyond my understanding, but I still really liked it","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Comedic director Adam McKay (best known for his collaborations with Will Ferrell, like Anchorman, Talladega Nights and Step Brothers) makes a foray into drama (though with plenty of comedic touches) with this film about the American housing collapse of the mid-2000s. The story has a great structure, with three different sets of people who were at the forefront of predicting the crisis and hope to make money off of it. Christian Bale is the first to see it. Later, banker Ryan Gosling catches wind of Bale's odd investments and figures it out. He accidentally alerts Steve Carell, and then has to team up with Carell and his crew. Third, a couple of young hedge fund managers (John Magaro and Finn Wittrock) hear about it and team up with former neighbor Brad Pitt to get in on the action. The problem with me here is that this is a subject I have a hard time grasping. McKay, however, is great at making it all understandable, or at least halfway so, and he's definitely great at making it all involving and entertaining. The entire ensemble is great. I'd name Bale the best in show, and I'm not usually a big Bale fan. Personally, I'd hold this up against Spotlight, which is similar in a lot of ways (you might think of the characters here as journalists trying to figure this all out), and say this is the way to make a film like this well. McKay's direction isn't overly showy, either, but he makes this exciting and interesting. Much of this is through the editing, which is some of the best of the year. I left Spotlight thinking, "Eh, that's too bad." I left The Big Short feeling angry. "},{"Title":"Short Sales","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Immediately following The Big Short, I had to watch the movie I hadn't seen in four years, but remember really liking and reminded me of this: Margin Call. So, back-to-back tales of Big Banks and Bigger Assholes destroying America for profit.Sadly, for me, anyways, I understood very little going into these movies and less going out. Focusing on the very different, often attempting to be gravely humorous, The Big Short, I did get the "Don't Pass Bar" theory&#x85;which is funny I use that analogy, since I understand Craps as much as I do these subprime falsehoods. Basically, a few weird, albeit geniuses, saw what was coming in 2008 &#x96; the rug being pulled out from under America and the mortgage crisis. To stay afloat, they bet against the market and all the idiots, fools and incredibly bad humans in the mortgage industry laughed at them and took their bets and money.Sadly, as comically as they tried to dumb down everything for the average schmo, I still didn't get all the terminology and pretty much gave up half way through. I'm guessing the leads of the story were supposed to be our heroes, and since they were scrambling to buy "shorts" &#x96; not the kinds you wear &#x96; and since I knew what was coming in 2008 with the housing crash, I just wanted them to get more "shorts."The movie was very well made with a great cast you wouldn't see coming if you hadn't seen the poster first.Now, after watching both Margin Call and this back-to-back, I take back that statement: "the newer one reminded me of the older film," as they couldn't be further apart aside from the end date. I gave both 4/5 stars and both are very good in their own ways. Personally, I would recommend (and wanna see again) Margin Call over The Big Short&#x85;but just by a margin and it'd be your call.That was bad. My apologizes. Still, see this movie. Especially if you understand all this mortgage mumbo-jumbo nonsense. "},{"Title":"Boring and misleading","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was incredibly boring. It also left out some rather important details regarding what fueled the housing crisis, including government backed loans, low interest rates and WHY there was a lack of financial oversight. The scene with the SEC character is misleading because the SEC doesn't regulate mortgage underwriting of commercial banks. It doesn't now and it never has. While the SEC regulated mortgage backed securities, it was primarily from a consumer protection standpoint. The most misleading part was when the movie claimed that little has changed since the financial crisis in terms of regulatory oversight. Financial regulation has since changed significantly. Banks have to hold much more capital and are prohibited from many activities that were allowed during the financial crisis. I could spend an hour writing about what has changed since the financial crisis. Also the banks didn't receive blank checks like many Americans tend to believe and this movie insinuates something similar. The bailout was in the forms of collateralized loans. As in the government took ownership of something the bank previously owned and gave the bank cash. Why? The assets that banks previously used for liquidity were tied up in a market that stopped functioning practically overnight. Over time the market started functioning again, banks repaid their loans and banks received their collateral back from the government. That being said the movie was boring, especially from someone familiar with the products and industry. "},{"Title":"A "Short" Review","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Am I the only one who feels that this is the most overrated movie of 2015.There are quite a few important omissions that contributed to the financial crash, plus the movie makes it seem as though the main characters were the only ones in America who saw it coming.The strange Wolf of Wall Street cameos were a nice distraction from the intense overload of financial jargon, but failed to add any comedic value. Whereas the Goodfellas wannabe voice-over is a cheap attempt connecting the viewer.All in all, worth watching....but there are other movies I'd rather have invested in. "},{"Title":"Why the Big Short disappointed me so much.","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's start positive.Christian Bale pulls another great performance out of the bag.(Possibly his second Oscar.)And so does Steve Carell. (Should have been nominated.)And the music is amazing. As you leave to Led Zeppelin's crushing 'When The Levee Breaks' you could be striding, like a Wall Street Trader, all big balled and bouffant into the night, wind rushing through your long shiny hair all attitoodinal.You could be walking into a high maintenance Strip Club to be drooled over.You could. You really could.Except you're not.Because the last two hours of your life were a mess.You've seen an edit room meltdown. Let's face it, in places the editing in this movie is just sub frickin' prime man. But I can see why Hank Corwin is nominated. It's original. (But it's style over story telling).This movie is an economics lesson that wants to be so, so, so cool that you might even start to like economics in such a way that it blows it. But it forgets one very important thing.Great movies tell stories. This movie is not a story. It's SO NOT a story. It's just a mess. And any amount of Led Zeppelin and Steve Carell at his best and Bradd Pitt at his most subdued, modest, handsome, pouty self doesn't save it.It's a mess.And that's why it fails.(And as for Margot Robbie. Oh come on.)I kinda liked it all the same. "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Awesome movie. It's been a while that a wall street movie gets a 10 stars out of me. Not even The Wolf of Wall Street with my favorite actor Leonardo DiCaprio made such a strong impression on me. When it started I doubted that Carrel would deliver, for me he will always be connected to comedy, must be because I am such huge fan of The Office and have watched it thousand times. But he is awesome. The acting is great, the story is interesting. But what really brings the movie to a 10 stars review is that is educational, which adds social value to it. I would even show it to a class and make them write a paper on it. Excellent movie! Will definitely watch it a few times more in the future. "},{"Title":"Twizard Rating: 98","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If ever there was a film that typifies the last 10 years, it's The Big Short. It's filmmaking in its quickest form. And much credit goes to director Adam McKay, who has made a film so rapid fire that it even makes Vince Vaughn stop to catch his breath. It mirrors what goes on in today's multi-tasking society. But also what Wall Street has been doing for decades.Connecting three stories without much crossover, The Big Short deals with what led to the financial crash of 2008 and the radical few who had the wisdom and the gall to see it coming and act upon it.It starts with Christian Bales' character, Dr. Michael Burry, a Silicon Valley hedge fund manager who spots an instability in the United States housing market, predicting that the market will collapse in a few years. Much to his investors' dismay, he goes out and bets against the housing market--something that apparently you just don't do--by purchasing $500 million in credit default swaps. Many others catch wind of this, but only several are keen enough to spot the method to Burry's madness. The film tries and succeeds at making a dry topic appeal to the audience it wants. There's a lot of technical jargon, but McKay makes it easy for us to stay in the loop by doing unusual things like have "Margot Robbie in a bubble bath explain it to you". These celebrities explaining things happens a few times throughout the film for our enjoyment. McKay has such an unorthodox way of filmmaking, but it works here. Characters break the fourth wall about a dozen times, and he enjoys flooding the screen with intercut stills. It's actually very highbrow, but never makes us realize it. It has a mockumentary feel to it at times, which explains why Steve Carell makes sense here. He plays Mark Baum, a Wall Street hedge fund manager who gets approached by Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling) to invest in this whole credit default swap thing.A third story revolves around these two young investors who happen to get wind of Gosling's plan. They contact Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), their financial adviser, who helps back the idea.Each sub story is just as entertaining as the others, so you're never sitting there waiting for so- and-so to come back on screen. You never think about the fact that they're gone, but realize you missed them when they come back.It's a powerful film, even though it might not seem like it is. It never strays from its point just to get a laugh. Each laugh feels deserved and the humor organic. And with a killer soundtrack (especially if you were a teenager during those years), it's definitely one of the best films of the year.Twizard Rating: 98 "},{"Title":"Easily the best movie in 2015","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the best movie that I've seen in 2015. It represents a real story with real people. None of them is actually a hero or really a villain and that's what is great about it. The acting is as good as it can be and I am really impressed with the group of actors in the movie. I ended up watching it more than once, just to understand the real story behind it and I had more questions that I had answers afterwards. This movie is really a must see, at least so you can understand what kind of world we are living in. And as a conclusion to anyone who doesn't like the movie I can honestly say: "Truth is Like Poetry ... and people f***ng hate poetry." "}][{"Title":"The Trades of Wrath...","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A few days ago, my wife told me that the French President, who made finance his personal enemy in election days had just voted a law, making people losing all their money if their bank were out of business, no one knew that, it was during summer. But she knew, she works in a bank. And God after watching "The Big Short", I'm not the least surprised. When will people understand how the game works, dammit? "It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so."As much as I like this Twain quote, I wish they used instead ''A banker is a fellow who lends you his umbrella when the sun is shining, but wants it back the minute it begins to rain." The greatness of Adam McKay's biographical tragicomedy (tragedy emphasized) lies in its pedagogical value: with fourth-wall breaking, a dense but easily-digestible script (co-written with Charles Randolph) and brilliant cameos explaining the complex intricacies of the credit system, you quickly catch the drift. The umbrella metaphor would've been one of these images that speak thousand words. And on that level, the collapse of the housing market in 2008 isn't exactly a 'Gene Kelly' rain, more of 'Noah's ark' one.The film, like an ominous ticking bomb, chronicles the chain of events leading to the disaster, just like "Titanic', we know the end but the dynamite-editing makes the experience so exhilarating. It's like "Crisis for Dummies", the dummies we were for trusting our bankers more than our intelligence. How a credit works, where your money goes, and how you fill the portfolio of poker-face crooks who know how to make a delicious stew out of rotten fish heads.Cheating is such a part of the game that the question is not 'how did that happen?', but 'how could that 'NOT' happen? The very premise of credit is fallacious when you think about it (and this comes from someone who's still paying his studies loan debts after 14 years). The greatest trick of the credit system is to make you believe that you can buy something you actually can't. And this is why sub-prime loans (high risks for fewer returns, worthless mortgages making as worthless bonds) have been created, this is the butterfly's fart that will end up in a hurricane, and hedge fund manager Michael Burry( (Christian Bale) smelled the fart before everyone else.Burry checks a few lines and columns on Excel, and decides to "short the bond", meaning to bet against the housing market by creating a credit default swap market. Let's just say, it's like investing on pharmaceuticals when you're the only one who knows about the imminence of a bacterial war. Many banks accept his offer, which implies that he'll hit the jackpot only in the (then unconceivable) case that the housing market collapses. It's one of these cases where even Bale can betray in his eyes, the one that works anyway, something like "I wish I was wrong", and he's not the only one who feels this way.There's Mark Baum, another hedge manager who's alerted by a trader played by Ryan Gosling about Burry's move. They can see the sword of Damocles over their heads and do their own investigations, from estate agents bragging about their exploits: selling expensive houses to poor schmucks or Standards & Poors selling lousy debt obligation with excellent ratings (law of the market), they know there's something fishy. Meanwhile, two young investors (John Magaro and Finn Wittrock) learn about the situation and with the help of a retired banker, played by Brad Pitt, they go to Mortgage Securities Forum in Las Vegas and make enough deals to be able to buy out the same 'insurance' than Burry, they're on the safe side.And this is when Pitt's character interrupts their celebration by reminding them, that lives will be lost at each percentage of unemployment rising, and that there's nothing to be joyful about. And that's what makes "The Big Short" such a magnificent storyteller. Just when you get an overdose of financial jargon, you have Margot Robbie in a bathtub explaining to you the mortgage system (the script should win the Oscar just for that), just when you wonder what has become of this character, you get to him, and just when the comedic tones gets too palpable, you have a moment of genuine decency reminding you that that the film is the chronicle of a predicted tragedy.There's a similar moment where Mark Baum discusses with a businessman who created synthetic CDOs, increasingly large bets on faulty loan brilliantly explained by Selena Gomez who plays a black jack player inspiring many viewers to bet for her on the basis that she had won every time. She'd lose ultimately but it's one thing to lose five thousands on a risk that cost you five thousands, but when financial tricks turns the five thousand into millions, in terms of massive destructive weapons, these CDOs are the real stuff, and Baum knows the bomb is soon to explode. It's almost ironic that his name sounds like Boom.It makes sense that some cultures forbid interest rates on the basis that nothing should be bought above its intrinsic value. Metal has value, salt has value, but what value has paper than the numbers written on? Why should it take you 20 years to buy an apartment thrice its price? Because finance says '1$ today isn't 1$ tomorrow', I know, but well, whatever these billions were worth before the crisis, they totally vanished in 2008 putting millions of people jobless, homeless and many of them lifeless."The Big Short" is an important movie with the epic ambition of Michael Moore's docs, the spellbinding editing of "JFK" and the fast-paced entertainment of "Goodfellas" except that this time, the gangsters are not arrested in the end. "},{"Title":"Witty expose of the banking crisis","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short focuses on four individuals who predicted the banking collapse of 2008 and so bet against the banks. Christian Bale plays Michael Burry, a hedge fund investor who in 2005 predicted that the housing market would collapse and bring down the banks. Other investors, played by Steve Carrell, Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt soon get wind of Burrys prediction and decide to follow him. When they bet against the banks, the bankers laugh but take their bets thinking its easy money. But of course, as we know, these people were proved right as a mortgage crisis led to several banks collapsing while others were given huge government bailouts. The film does very well to explain the jargon behind the banking. Although the idea of getting celebrities such as Selena Gomez and Anthony Bourdain to give the explanations does wear thin. The film is very well acted, particularly Carrell who is on top form. Unfortunately the film does descend into Wolf of Wall Street style excess at times which can be wearying and seems to be a desperate attempt to add a bit of thrill to what is otherwise very dialogue heavy film. Women have a very small role in the film, other than when they are strippers being objectified. By the time Marisa Tomei reappeared near the end of the film, I had forgotten that she was in it. And while there is some mention, certainly more so than in WoWS, there could have been more about the consequences of the banking crisis for ordinary people who lost their homes and jobs. Overall though, the film is enjoyable and informative. "},{"Title":"The Big Short is a bit short of being a masterpiece for me. I felt like it was just alright.","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have mixed feelings about this movie based on author Michael Lewis' non-fiction book of the same name. The reason why, is because it's might be, a little too loosely based on true events. While, the Big Short, definitely shows that the U.S housing market, was built on a house of cards. I felt like the movie directed by Adam McKay really doesn't go deep enough into the 2007 financial crisis, as it should. It puts all the financial blame on the evil bankers. Yes, bankers at the time, are too blame, and they are greedy, but the government at the time is just as bad. After all, it's the past, 3 presidential administrations that pressured banks to help poor people become homeowners. If anything, blame them, as well, movie. I also didn't like, how the movie doesn't even, address Fannie Mae & Freddie Mac, much. You would think, those two, would play a big factor in this film. Then, you got no mention of corruption in the Federal Reserve. Where was that? I was really hoping for this movie, to spill the beans. Sadly, it only scan the surface of the financial issue. Another thing that bug me, about this film, is the movie pacing. The pacing somewhat lose directions, at parts. I really don't get why the film love venturing into bizarre sub-stories, about having a fake eye, or a brother that commit suicide. It felt like filler. Don't get me wrong, it's nice that they're trying to build, character's backstory, here, but it wasn't really needed. All that fast cutting editing for these scenes, just made the film, more annoying, disorienting and frantic for me. I really didn't care about them. All, I wanted is the movie to examine the housing problem. That's all. I do like the how the movie have sequences in which, famous celebrities cameos like Margot Robbie, Selena Gomez and Anthony Bourdain explain, more of the complex economic terms with more, flashy, quick-witted layman's terms. Just think, how more awesome, it could had been, if the movie got its original celebrity cameos in, like Scarlett Johansson, Beyonce, and rapper Jay Z. No matter what, some of the other humorous way of story-telling sequences, seem not to work as much as it should. I really didn't like how the artist, 'Ludicrous' rap music video was being mixed with scenes of Wall Streets. I'm sorry, I find his music, to be very awful. Another thing, I really don't understand, why there was a laugh-track, during the whole discussion about synthetic CDOs. Are we, supposed to find it, funny? I really don't get, what the message, was supposed to be, there. Another thing, I don't get, is the whole 'break the fourth wall' gags. It's a bit funny, at times, but I found them to be, somewhat distracting and jarring. While, are these people repeating lines!? It's too confusing. Another thing, that made me, dislike the film, a bit, is how, they made these investors seem like the heroes. Honestly, as much as the movie wants us, believe that these hedge fund investors have a moral code. In truth, these men, are not somebody to root for. After all, all the characters profit hugely as the housing economy crumbles in 2008 and really didn't do anything to stop it. They are just as much to blame, as the stockbrokers in Wall Street. These are not modern day 'Robin Hood and his merry men" fighting against the corrupt banks. They were in the scheme as much as the banks were. Just note, that Saints don't live in Park Ave, when watching this film. Despite that, the All-Star Cast did an alright performance. I found the characters in which they play; Michael Burry (Christian Bale), Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), Mark Baum (Steve Carell), Charlie Geller (John Magaro), Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) & Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) all very interesting characters. What I don't like, about the characters, is how many of the real-life names were changed for this movie. It gives me, the impression that they're trying to hide something. Out of the four main characters, Michael Burry is the only character whose name wasn't changed for the movie and whom character seem like the real-life couther-part. The real Michael Burry spent a total of roughly 12 hours talking with actor Christian Bale for this role. For the most part, having seem real interviews with real Michael Burry; I believe Christian Bale master his behavioral traits, very well. As for the others, Steve Carell did met with Steve Eisman, the real-life person in which, his character was based on, however, his version of him, was a bit over the top preachy. The movie made him, seem like too-much like an activist for the righteous, when in truth, Eisman was once, indicted with allegations of inside trading, within his own company. It got so bad, that Eisman had left FrontPoint Partners in 2011 amid investor withdrawals. Another thing, it does not appear that Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt were in touch with Greg Lippmann and Ben Hockett, the real-life counterparts to their Big Short characters. If anything, I have a strong feeling that, these performances are not that accuracy to the real-life characters, as well. Also, where was the character of Meredith Whitney in this film? She predicted the demise of Citigroup and Bear Stearns, and was mention in the book, but she's nowhere to be found in this film. How come, they cut out her story? Another problem, is how, of the central supporting characters; only Michael Burry and Baum's employees are the ones that kept their real names. Why do they so differ from the source material? I have to say, after doing research for this film, I found the movie to only be 2/4 accuracy. That's not good. Overall: It's a fine movie. Just, a little flaw. Not a classic, but watchable. "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the serious book by author Michael Lewis; director, screenwriter Adam McKay turns a complicated subject on it's head creating a visual stunner of humor and knowledge. The housing collapse in 2008 was foreseen by a few very smart people who were completely ignored by all the other greedy people working in the financial world. For anyone effected by what happened you should be outraged by what was done. It's Steve Carrell who steals the show from the other talented actors in this movie. It's one of his best performances. It's easy to see why this movie has been winning awards as its relevance for future markets and generations to come can't be denied. It's the subject matter few people really want to discuss especially those who cheated the system and got away with it. "},{"Title":"fictionalised documentary that trivialises","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not quite sure what I expected from this film or why I was vaguely drawn towards it but I think I expected something like Get Shorty, with a great and wildly funny script and at the same time an insight into an industry i probably knew less than i though about. Instead this is very much a fictionalised documentary that trivialises a massive moment in our recent past. This is only eight years ago for goodness sake, most of us surely remember the horrors. People queuing to take their money out of Northern Rock before it collapsed, my own RBS pension with doubts hanging over it as my bank hovered on the brink. It is interesting to note that though most of the US comments are most favourable a rather large number of foreign language reviews are not. The US came out of this rather well (I know a lot of people lost their homes though this is barely mentioned in the film) - they got their housing market correction and passed all the crap securities to Europe. Instead of looking objectively at this, the film centres on a few privileged oafs and asks us to feel sorry because they might not make the money they wee hoping to out of the mess they were contributing to. The dialogue is fine, the performances are fine but the direction is slack and the editor must have fallen asleep, I know I nearly did! "},{"Title":"Takes the wrong tone","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short attempts to turn the story of global economic collapse into light-hearted fare, with the occasional pain and insight that people have lives and feelings that get hurt. Intelligent investors hypocritically profiteer at what they see as the end of capitalism, blaming greedy bankers. But there's no analysis of the total entrenchment of capitalism in the global economy, and how centuries of greed, corruption, and profiteering brought us to the brink.Inside Job was a much more meaningful warning about rampant capitalism and government complicity, without the need to sugarcoat any details. The Big Short's lighthearted tone seems to defeat its purpose. And being told that credit default swaps are not that complicated, because even B-list celebrities can explain them, is trite.The movie's shaky cam, overuse of stills, and incessant breaking of the fourth wall destroy the pace and make you think it would be better enjoyed as part of a live Twitter feed. And whatever moral dilemmas the characters face, it's easy to see nothing compares to the undeniable truth of capitalism: people prefer two dollars over one.Maybe the reason there are no African-American Oscar nominations for acting is because the movies of 2015 (consider also Spotlight and Mad Max: Fury Road) show that the world is being screwed over royally by white people.When the aliens land and discover our societal ruins, they will at least have access to our movie archives, and they will say, "At least they had fun destroying themselves." "},{"Title":"Definitely over-hyped but still worth a watch.","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is a movie based on a true story about a look at a couple of groups who foresaw the economic crash of 2008 and cashed in against greedy banks etc. The performances were rock solid. The cast did a great job. Most notable was Christain Bale, who played this genius yet socially awkward guy, and Steve Carrel, who yet again proved that he can do more than just comedy roles. Now the subject which was being covered isn't something that an average person will find interesting. Economics, banking and related stuff with tons of terminologies and jargons and numbers. It could get pretty boring fast. So the movie incorporated various ways to make it all interesting like a fun script that kept things light and quirky, various 4th wall breaking moments, celebrity cameos explaining important terms etc. It all combined together to form an uneven but ultimately an enjoyable experience. The pacing was often uneven. I was bored in some parts of the film. And the hand holding got a bit too in-your-face at times. I get that they were trying to make things easier for mass audiences but some of the ways incorporated distracted rather than being fun. Also, the movie tried to make this feel more documentary-ish and it ended up being annoying at times, especially the shaky camera work. The recession of 2008 was a BIG EVENT that effected the whole world and knowing more about it is always something I found interesting. Definitely a good watch, but I do feel it is being overblown in the award season. Kinda feels like this year's American Hustle.7/10 "},{"Title":"Enlightening the Issue","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short tells the story behind the economy collapse in 2008, turning this serious financial tragedy into a rather zippy entertainment that breaks the fourth wall and explaining the audience about how the system works less boring as possible. And fortunately, it indeed works. There is a sense of profoundness in tackling this issue and the movie wholeheartedly puts those details into a fascinating piece of entertainment. Though one might point out that the movie isn't quite subtle at its hate towards the banking system, but the movie acknowledges what really went wrong and that insight is what made it undeniably engrossing.The movie focuses on five different people; trying to prevent the predicted collapse and prove the fraudulence of the banks. The film is aware that not many are familiar with this financial environment and their jargon, and it would be complicated for them to comprehend. So the movie manages to keep putting up celebrity cameos summing up the details, out of their own metaphor. There's also breaking the fourth wall moments to take things clearer. But what the movie is trying to represent is how the banks have gone greedy and they are responsible on keeping the economy from being stable. Although this is a one sided perspective, it also acknowledges the trouble that the main characters might cause if they sue, expose and just find investors in their endeavor.In these accounts, the movie portrays them well, especially when their prediction is finally at place. You can really feel everything has fallen apart. The direction is palpably stylish, it cuts to montages of stock photos, footage, etc. that represents what is happening, almost like The Tree of Life or Lucy or something. But you get the picture. The performances are downright entertaining, with Ryan Gosling just does his cool thing. Christian Bale gets a little strange, but he does the work right. Though it's Steve Carell who brought the more compelling arc to the picture.The Big Short really exceeds expectations, yeah the style gets too gimmicky, but it understands its big picture and delivers it as the audience can follow through. It's something that the film wants to reach this story out on a wider audience, in spite of the overwhelmingly complex language that the market speaks. The direction manages to make it all gripping, while the acting is energetic enough to keep it compelling. The Big Short just lets it all entertaining until things really get devastating. "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie!","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think the film is very good because it touches many themes people are not aware of the economic crisis of 2008 .The performances were very good and the plot , although they already knew that was going to end , it was entertaining and it was not only a serious film economy, but they kept the comedy side room for the kind of theme that was handled ! In total I highly recommend this movie for those interested in the subject or for people who simply and only They mind want to learn something without studying the issue very thoroughly.I NOT recommend the movie to people who are not interested in the issue and that They want to see a movie just for fun !.I hope you liked my review, this is my first review and any Please comment having what they are grateful to mail Mandaran that comes up . "},{"Title":"The Big Short comes up big.","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is no other movie in recent memory that is quite the same as The Big Short. Adam McKay has crafted a well oiled machine of financial lessons and meta comedy, an unlikely duo at that. The Big Short is about the recent financial crisis and more specifically the crash of the housing market and the people that benefited from it. This description makes the lead characters seem like the bad guys, but they were just taking advantage of the misconduct of the banks and the general system of mortgage companies. The way that McKay lays out all of the complicated banker mumbo jumbo into terms that a normal viewer can understand is stunning. I was interested in a topic that had never even crossed my mind before, and by the end credits my head was just buzzing with financial terms that I still had little to no idea about, but was interested to learn more.The cast is the definition of an ensemble. The true stars of this movie are Steve Carell as Mark Baum, Christian Bale as Michael Burry and Ryan Gosling as Jarred Vennett. Out of these only Bale's character is real but the other are based on real people. Carell is the real standout performance here. He has the perfect blend of comedic and dramatic acting for this role and I think this is where he is at his best. He was a joy to watch and is the moral barometer for the viewer. He is trying to do what we the viewer would hope to do in his position, make the corrupt banks pay for their crimes and making a load of money for the trouble. Bale and Gosling hold their own bolstered by a few more performances that round out one of the best casts of the year including John Magaro as Charlie Geller, Finn Wittrock as Jamie Shipley and Brad Pitt as Ben Rickert. The strength of the ensemble cast reminded me of another cast this year, Spotlight, and that is pretty good company to be in.Adam McKay has always been a good directer who knows comedy and how to get great performances out of large casts of actors. This is without a doubt his best effort so far. The pacing of the movie was outstanding, an area of some of McKay's movies that I have thought lacked. It moves fast and jumps long stretches of time with short pop culture montages of the time that has passed. The actors will frequently turn right to the camera and talk directly to the audience, which some may find frustrating but as someone who continued to get lost in the stock trader lingo, it felt nice to fell like the characters were there to hit pause and help explain some of the more complicated portions. McKay brought over some comedy tricks with the camera to help the movie out. At times the direction seemed scattered and even poorly done, but this does two things. One it inherently makes things funnier when the camera randomly zooms in or starts filming something seemingly unimportant. It also makes the viewer feel like the characters in the movie. They don't know what exactly is going on, it makes the viewer feel like they are right there in the board room hearing all this crazy stuff first hand.The writing is a great blend of Michael Lewis style number crunching and information gathering, and a comedic twist as to avoid extreme boredom for the normal viewer. The writing is witty and fast paced and perfectly book ended by a nice financial lesson. It was an incredibly smart choice to add the comedy element to the movie and McKay and Charles Randolph have made a script that is not just compelling and interesting, but also one of the funniest movie of the year.The Big Short addresses an issue that just about every American dealt with. It was one of the most important events in American history and still very few people know what happened. This movie is the perfect way to learn exactly why the economy of this country failed and how people will do anything they can to make money even if it may be disruptive in the future. It is a movie that does not hold back and tells the story it believes is the one that needs to be told, not necessarily the best story. There are twists and turns that you will not expect, but it does not need to surprise you or have some sort of twist ending, it lets the incompetence of the banks do that. If you are in any way interested in this movie it is a must see and for any movie fan is it certainly worth the watch. "}][{"Title":"ISDA's,AAA rated loans sounds crap?.....WRONG!!!!","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is a brilliantly filmed movie which explains the economic collapse in a manner that is both didactic and engaging. Documentary, mockumentary, drama, thriller . . . whatever genre you want to call this film, it is money.The plot of this movie is not actually the important part, and there are no spoilers since it already actually happened. The Big Short tells the story of the collapse of the housing market from those who managed to profit from it: an investment firm in California, a group linked to Morgan Stanley, and two college kids who were clever enough to figure out exactly what to invest in. The narrator is actually another involved party, a trader for Deutsche Bank.Christian Bale is brilliantly morose,Steve Carell is amazingly Manic Brad Pitt is at his melancholic best PLEASE WATCH "},{"Title":"Is it Mocumentary? Regardless, it's genius! Not to be missed","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Truly masterfully done. If this genre is called mocumentary, which I've seen being developed throughout these past few years, then Adam McKay is the king of this genre. At first, as you begin to sink into the movie, you as a viewer, are not fully convinced that this mash up works or will work. Alas, as you go further, you realize that it is practically flawless. Why did Adam McKay use this genre in my opinion? Because with the story and script of the movie, it fits perfectly. The proof is that for such a seemingly boring calamity to be portrayed in such fluidity and class and entertainment, it requires the work of a master. And not only is Adam McKay the master here, but also the script writers and the actors. Watch it, enjoy it and learn in many ways. "},{"Title":"More bathtub scenes for enlightenment","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" (Plot Synopsis FROM IMDb) Four denizens of the world of high-finance predict the credit and housing bubble collapse of the mid-2000s, and decide to take on the big banks for their greed and lack of foresight. As the topic is serious as hell but for me, less entertaining, the documentary-type movie is full of exceptional actors. I liked the approach of random celebrities explaining the banking jargons. With that, I was enlightened a little bit. Honestly, I still don't understand some of what happened in this movie. I guess, I am too young for this or I am not in the perfect place for the setting and theme of the movie. That is my only problem in the movie, I just need more Margot Robbie to explain the movie for me.I, honestly, didn't enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"The Big Short--We Were All Duped","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short", based on Michael Lewis's book, is a film that wildly fluctuates between comedy and deadly serious criticism of Wall Street.The producers, shouting out "Finance For Dummies", follow a group of outlier financial analysts who predicted and bet on the fall of the U.S. housing market. 2011's "Margin Call" told a similar story. "Wolf of Wall Street" also focused on investment banking as one excessive party, with attempts at humor.More a powerful expose of the securities market and how Wall Street bet against the ignorance of the average investor, "The Big Short" sometimes does entertain the viewer as we laugh at ourselves for our guileless trust in those folks who duped us out of billions of dollars of our hard-earned money. We feel the horror of understanding that on Wall Street greed trumps common sense. Read my entire review at: www.unhealedwound.com "},{"Title":"'The Big Short' tackles a big subject with big performances while catering to the audience","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The man behind "Anchorman" and "Step Brothers" brings you &#x85; one of the best films of the year &#x85;? Seems ridiculous, but you could make a case for it to be true. Adam McKay's "The Big Short," based on the book by Michael Lewis (also of "The Blinds Side" and "Moneyball"), is a comical tragedy about the men who saw our economy propped up on bad mortgage loans and bet against the banks, thereby cashing in on the economic crisis of 2008.It's easy enough to make a slick business film full of powerhouse performances from great actors playing charismatic slime ball characters &#x97; take "The Wolf of Wall Street," for example &#x97; and in many ways McKay tries to make that flashy sort of drama, but on the other hand, "The Big Short" isn't about crime and corruption (of the main characters, at least), it's about discovering just how deep a bad system goes and what's at stake for not just the characters, but the country."The Big Short" follows three different story lines of individuals who discovered the truth and bought credit default swaps from the banks, giving them millions, knowing that if the loans defaulted, they'd make a killing: Dr. Michael Burry (Christian Bale), the oddball hedge fund manager who wears shorts and no shoes to work that made the discovery; Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), a trader who learns what Burry's doing and engages hedge fund manager Mark Baum (Steve Carell) and his team, who are known for their distrust of the system; and Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Witrock), two young and inexperienced investors who discover what Vennett is doing and enlist the help of retired banker Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) so they can trade at such a high level.The characters aren't anywhere near as complicated as the financial concepts driving the plot. What McKay and co-writer Charles Randolph do best with this script is make it user-friendly. There's no possible way for someone not in this business to understand every financial concept at work, but McKay and Randolph utilize various methods to help communicate that information, including celebrity cameos explaining the most difficult concepts and a character-narrator in Gosling's Jared Vennett who breaks the fourth wall to help clue the audience in at different points throughout the film."The Big Short" plays out like a procedural or a mystery, particularly when Baum's team goes out looking for proof to back up the numbers and theories. They dig deeper and we discover alongside them just what lengths the banks have gone to to sweep this problem under the rug and just how hard the economy could fall. This journey is full of humor, especially generated by the demeanors of Bale, Gosling and especially Carell's characters.McKay also supplements the story with all manner of techniques, from the more overt and flashy to the subtle and dramatic. Most of what he goes for sticks, but a lot of it falls flat, or feels forced or purposeless. There's some unnecessary use of montage and forced B-roll to go with Gosling's narration. "The Big Short" is really at its best when McKay steps back and lets the actors take over.These are total characters &#x97; as in full of comical neuroses. What do you expect to happen when you give the likes of Christian Bale a character description that includes being anti-social, into heavy metal drumming and a glass eye? It's like watching an eccentric artist given free reign to do anything he or she wants. Bale doesn't go off the deep end &#x97; his character actually has some of the quieter and better dramatic moments of the film, but it's hard to call what he or any of the actors do in this film inspired or surprising.Carell is the true standout as Baum, a character whose natural inclinations are to speak out inappropriately and go against the grain, who is happiest when he's miserable and yet whose moral convictions are sound and resolute. Quirky, loud characters are in Carell's wheelhouse, yet he gives Baum a complexity and nuance that makes the role rather transformative. More importantly, Carell swings from comedy to drama effortlessly in this film with a truly committed performance.The entire film swings from comedy to drama, which is really what makes "The Big Short" succeed. We spend so much time waiting for the payoff &#x97; literally in terms of when the characters' investments pay off and figuratively in terms of the narrative &#x97; yet there really is none. We get so wound up in the story and McKay catches us; when the scope of the film widens again, reminding us that the success of the main characters equates to the biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression, the film becomes a meaningfully sobering experience. It's anti-climactic, but in the right way. It would be wrong to give us the Hollywood ending to the glossy business comedy and McKay nails that reversal of tone."The Big Short" is bit of a messy collage of storytelling tactics and tones, but it is imminently watchable thanks to its sensitivity to the subject and the caliber of big- time performances that the movies are all about. It's a film that will surely hold up well with repeated viewings and perhaps even get better.~Steven CVisit Movie Muse Reviews for more "},{"Title":"Performances and style make this true story hard-hitting but a great comedy.","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Before we've even fully awoken from our 'Christmas eating and New Year partying' induced slumber, director and writer Adam McKay throws us a curve ball. McKay's hit comedy collaborations with Will Ferrell are modern classics; it's hard to find someone who couldn't fire out Anchorman quotes or who hasn't got Step Brothers in their top 10.These films are welcomed with open arms, but this time round, that ball is coming, not in the way we expected it. Firstly, The Big Short doesn't star Ferrell. Instead, on the frontline are Steve Carrell, Christian Bale, Ryan Gosling, and Brad Pitt. The story begins with hedge fund manager Michael Burry (Christian Bale) whose quirky personality hides genius brought to light by his discovery of the instability of the housing market; he then decides to profit from that said situation.Trader Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling) hears on the banking grapevine of Burry's actions and being one of the only people to see his prediction as fathomable, he follows suit. A wrong phonecall leads Mark Baum (Steve Carrell) and his team in on the job with Vennett. Not the only ones betting against unstable housing bonds, young investors Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) catch whiff of the financial agreements placed by the others and recruit retired banker Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt) to give them some credibility to get involved with the big boys.The plot filling this storyline consists of these men bargaining, pitching, convincing, and arguing but most of all, the dreaded banking jargon. Not for the faint-hearted or attention-deficient, sure, but audiences shouldn't be put off. McKay and co-writer Charles Randolph hire the likes of Margot Robbie, Selena Gomez, and Antony Bourdain to explain and enhance the viewing experience with vibrant, funny and inventive metaphors for the bonds, the agreements, and the loans that non-banking folk may not quite be accustomed to.This isn't the only device used that makes the film as energetic and fast-paced as the financial sector itself. McKay opts for rapid, choppy montage editing, for which the images used seem somewhat trivial at times.It cannot be denied though that the atmosphere created from not only this style but the snappy, piercing dialogue overflowing with comedy and even breaking the fourth wall, was simply electrifying.What The Big Short does differently from McKay's previous work is that it hits hard. These are not heroes the story is following. They're people profiting off the global crisis that affected millions of people through loss of jobs, houses, lives and it really happened.Just when the excitement and humour sweeps you up, it throws you back on the floor reminding you of the horror of what happens worldwide if and when these misfits are right. This shines through the performances of Steve Carell and his team played by Hamish Linklater, Rafe Spall and Jeremy Strong. These actors owned their multi- layered characters but it's when they're woven amongst the other roles that everything seems to click.Unfortunately, the characterisation of Burry wasn't as slick. This could be a result of Bale's gimmicky quirks which although a crucial factor in the portrayal of Burry, were considerably distracting on occasion. This is a small bug to bear throughout a whirlwind of words, crime, and justice. The Big Short reels audiences in with stand- out performances even from supporting cast, giving emotional whiplash through shock and humour. Adam McKay has upped his game. "},{"Title":"The  Big  Short","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is a fascinating film which is equally hypnotic and frustrating. Director Adam McKay, who had previously only been involved in comedies, impressed me very much with the skill and safeness he displays in his first "serious" movie... even though not as serious, because even though The Big Short tells a tragic and shocking story, its rhythms and structures reminded me of the cadence of the sophisticated humor employed by films such as Dr. Strangelove or Ocean's Eleven (1960). Yes, this last analogy is more appropriate, because what co-screenwriters McKay and Charles Randolph did was a fusion of economic satire and "heist movie", in which the "big hit" is executed with mathematics and financial analysis instead of tunnels or night infiltrations; and the victim wasn't a person who deserves it, but working people from all over the world. Another similarity is the presence of a colorful gang of accomplices: the antisocial mathematical genius, the talented investors with few experience, the "shark" with a golden heart who risks his fortune to finance the hit and the talkative one who convinces everyone with his extortionate plan. Even working on their own, each one of them has a picturesque personal neurosis and a specific role they must fulfill in order to take advantage of the economic ruin and become millionaires at the end of the mission. And even though we all know the end of the story (the worldwide economic crisis we keep suffering today), there's as many suspense in The Big Short as in the best heist movies, something which reveals how well it captures us into the experiences of the characters while making us forget for some moments about the sad reality. And the actors make an excellent work in their roles, from the famous ones (Ryan Gosling, Christian Bale, Steve Carell and Brad Pitt) to the less known ones, such as Hamish Linklater, John Magaro and Finn Witrock; there isn't a single weak link in the cast. Talking about weak links... the "frustration" I mentioned on the beginning of this review is referred to the abundant and continuous use of financial terms which are difficult to understand, not only due to their cryptic acronyms (ISDA, CDO, MBS, etc.), but also because of the incomprehensible concepts they handle; Earning money selling overdue debts? Who the hell understands that logic? The banks understand it, and even though the film includes some ingenious tricks to bring us accessible financial lessons (like the use of the famous actress Margot Robbie in a bubble bath to explain some of the previously mentioned terms), I honestly felt myself lost during some key moments of the movie. Or, better said, I felt myself rationally lost, because thanks to the brilliant performances and McKay's perfect direction, I never lost the emotional thread of the story. In this decade, there have been some excellent films about the economic collapse, such as Margin Call and Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps. However, The Big Short offers us something different, simultaneously more complicated due to its structure, and simpler because of the easiness to assimilate the experiences of characters who would have been villains in any other movie. Sure, they keep being villains due to their cynical actions, but at least, they didn't produce the disaster... they just found the way to exploit it in their favor. Wouldn't we all have done the same? "},{"Title":"Eye-opener Good story, good shifting.","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" On the front of the cover it says 4 names in the top. Although not bad! Let's just erase the fourth name "Brad Pitt" Cause I don't think he deserves his name there as he is not in the film that much and doesn't make such a impression for me to say good job he was there.Again it wasn't bad acting at all or whatever, it's just that Christian, Ryan and Steve really elevated this story and film. I think the Christian Bale role could have been more upfront more screen-time more detail, so maybe for an extended cut on the DVD??In short it definitely explains some unknowns (to me), and captures a lot of, what the f*** did he just say? Did this really happen?Steve was brilliant, yes he is more than just a comedian! Christian is there something he can't play? And for me to hate and love Ryan's role in this film proves he's a good actor. "},{"Title":"Keeping Up With The Kardashians...wait what?!","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" "The Big Short" is what happens when you keep up with the Kardashians instead of the world around you."The Big Short" is what happens when you allow greed and stupidity to co-exist and then you go on to praise the fruits of their loom (no not the t-shirt and underwear company)..."The Big Short" happened because we allowed it to happen. Lost amidst all of the finger pointing, posturing and outrage...we conveniently forgot our own complicity as a people in this whole mess. Our own greed, selfishness and desire for the easy life, the easy way out, paved the path and greased the wheels for all these Wall Street types to do what they did. We, without wanting to know about it, gave them our blessing. And they went ahead and they did what they know to do...make money at all costs. Sure, financiers (of all types) and regulators, governments etc., etc, etc., deserve a large share of the blame. No doubt. But the proof is in the pudding, the devil is in the details. With the exception of a few suckers, more like sacrificial lambs, not one of the people responsible for this has ever been punished or went to jail. Worse, we went on to bail them out of the mess they created and on top of that were left to foot the bill and pay the real life cost of the outcome of that mess. And the cherry on top of this s*it cake? Now, almost 8 years later, after what was dubbed the Great Recession, pretty much the same individuals are back doing what they did then, but on an even larger scale and we are in an even worse position to head off or prevent another crisis like the one in 2008. Or probably much worse and much bigger. "The Big Short" happens because we shirk our own responsibility. Oh yeah and the movie is really good too...you should check it out... "},{"Title":"A little short of perfection","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you knew how to tie your shoes during the 2008 recession, you need to eventually see The Big Short. Adam McKay shows a whole new set of skills in this film, while also remaining true to his forever-to-be-remembered comedic genius. Mckay is able to squeeze a load of humor into a subject that is so serious (and tragic) without coming across as offensive. He surprises me most by simultaneously being able to convey said seriousness and tragedy, as well as explain all the details of the highly confusing subject matter at a level of which someone without any finance background can understand.Surely the general audience of this film is more of the older adult population (whether intended or not). Yet, Mckay's decision of fast paced quick-cut editing and addition of young pop-culture references opens this film up to nearly anyone (with the exception of the R rating, of course). I will also add that the (VERY) fast-paced editing helps distract the audience from its slower story. I have a love/hate relationship with the ending of the film, in which Mckay does an amazing job exemplifying the emotion and hypocrisy of those BEHIND the collapse. However, it was the depiction of those truly affected, those mostly watching this film, that I found a bit corny and underwhelming. Then again, if he were able to capture the emotion of hundreds of millions of people into one film, he would be the God of filmmaking. Coming from one of the millions of families that were heavily affected by the 2008 recession, The Big Short helps put to rest my anxieties and questions about what had happened to us. On the same note, it also brings upon more (healthy) anxieties of the future, reminding us all to stay aware and ready for the ever-changing economy we live under. All in all, it left me feeling simply and insignificantly human. Depending on your self-perception before going into this film, that may or may not be a good thing. Powerful, nonetheless. "}][{"Title":"It almost has you rooting for the U.S. economy to fail!","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'THE BIG SHORT': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Critically acclaimed comedy-drama flick; about the financial crisis, of 2007 to 2010, and the clever businessmen who were able to profit from it. The film was directed by Adam McKay (who's helmed such other comedy classics as 'ANCHORMAN', 'STEP BROTHERS' and 'THE OTHER GUYS'), and it was written by McKay and Charles Randolph. The movie stars Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, John Magaro, Finn Wittrock, Jeremy Strong, Hamish Linklater, Rafe Spall and Brad Pitt. Along with it being impressively critically rated, the film is also expected to be nominated for multiple Academy Awards (including Best Picture). I found it to be a very insightful, and highly entertaining, movie.The story begins in 2005, when Michael Burry (Bale), a socially awkward hedge fund manager, predicts the upcoming financial crisis (due to the unstable housing market) and decides to bet against it. Burry creates a 'credit default swap market', much to the dismay of many of his investors. Multiple other businessmen catch wind of Burry's plan, and decide to pursue similar financial ventures. They include trader Jared Vennett (Gosling), hedge fund manager Mark Baum (Carell) and retired banker Ben Rickert (Pitt). The true story follows three different groups of people; as they follow their American dream, of becoming rich (while everyone else's dreams collapse). The movie is very informative, about what caused the economy to fail (in 2007). It's also very detailed, and educational (in it's explanations), while trying to remain entertaining; at the same time. I still got lost, multiple times, but I also learned a lot too. Besides being politically fascinating, the movie is hilarious, and full of complex characters. It's a lot more insightful, than anything McKay has done before. What's really odd about the film, is that it almost has you rooting for the U.S. economy to fail; just to prove it's likable characters right (I especially like Bale's character, Michael Burry). The film is a must see!Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: https://youtu.be/dWmLQGusjEk "},{"Title":"Brilliantly complicated and definitive in its financial assessment of the 2008 crisis","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a story about the greed centered financial system of the world, with the U.S.A. being at the center. It tells how this greed machine worked itself into the depths of a global recession. But unlike other movies that have come out on the 2008 mortgage crisis, this one does not focus on the after effects and the human suffering but rather gives a very erudite and somewhat esoteric view of the crisis; highlighting the causes, decisions, events that led to the crisis--the absolutely shocking, disgusting and lamentable deliberateness of the stake holders and apathy of the regulators.The cast (Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, Christian Bale, Brad Pitt among others) is top notch and the movie is interesting and well edited albeit a little complicated if you want to hang on to every word and understand it. But this comes off as a thoroughly researched and responsible film, which voices its displeasure at the atrocious behavior that caused so much global suffering.This is a must watch and surely one of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Insightful, Informative & Entertaining But Also Difficult To Follow At Times!","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Boasting a star cast of Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, Brad Pitt & others, all put together in an interesting story about the financial crisis of 2007-2010 that nearly crippled the world economy, plus regularly allowing its characters to break the fourth wall in order to explain the complexities of financial market to the audience, The Big Short is insightful but also messy at times.Based on the book of the same name, the film intercuts multiple story lines and concerns the people who predicted the credit & housing bubble collapse of the mid-2000s but, after witnessing the corruption within banks plus its lack of foresight, decided to bet against the market and profited enormously when it all went down while majority of population lost its lifetime's worth of savings.Co-written & directed by Adam McKay, The Big Short features a highly fascinating subject matter for there are still many around who were affected by the crisis that triggered the great recession yet aren't entirely aware of what exactly caused it & how. While McKay keeps his characters ready to simplify the complex terms of economy, the characters inhabiting this story themselves lack an interesting dimension.The script attempts to juggle multiple subplots but hits a few barricades in the process for it lacks a smooth flow due to muddled editing. Camera-work is a bit chaotic and although the pace at which it all unfolds is consistent, the transition from one subplot to another isn't. As far as performances go, only Carell leaves a lasting impression while Bale, Gosling & Pitt are unexpectedly underwhelming in their given roles and just play along.On an overall scale, The Big Short is an in-depth examination of the global financial crisis which is driven by McKay's kinetic direction, deftly written screenplay & fancy performances from its entire cast. Informative, investigative & entertaining yet requiring some effort from its viewers who need to keep up with its swiftly-paced, dialogue-driven narrative, the film tries to bring its complex tale to a more accessible level yet required a bit more transparency. Worth a shot. "},{"Title":"From the director of "Anchorman" comes a mockumentary "Wall Street"","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having browsed the Michael Lewis source material, it is a compelling examination of the 2008 financial crisis, starting from its roots on the housing and credit bubble to its fruits on the Wall Street. Strings of business jargon and crass pop culture from the book makes this as a fitting material for "Anchorman" director Adam McKay to take the helm.The movie glances on three interconnected stories of New York-based firm personalities who engaged on earning big from a marketing bubble on the credit and housing sectors. Each story has its own quirks and stakes to an impending crisis. The source of its growth comes from hedge fund manager Michael Burry (a sardonic Christian Bale, redoing a calm but crazy Patrick Bateman), who predicted the collapse from loan numbers he received and devised a way to profit from it by betting on the big corporations. His plan was realized when Deutsche Bank investor Jared Vennett (a snarky Ryan Gosling) decided to get involved in the credit swap, dragging along trader Mark Baum (an outstanding Steve Carell) and his firm. Burry's predictions also catch the eyes of junior investors Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock), who set a credit default swap deal with several officials, with the assistance of veteran banker Ben Rickert (a low-key Brad Pitt). All stories intertwine to what becomes the horror story for the world economy but an accomplished mission for those people who profit from it.The main topic that surrounds "The Big Short" is a complex issue that truly requires an unorthodox method to boost interest. Adam McKay's approach goes for the mockumentary style, complete with hand-held camera-work, supportive montages and jumps from scene to scene. Also adding to McKay's oddities is the splurging editing (thanks to deserving Hank Corwin), which spans from the surrounding pop culture of the period, and the sudden fourth-wall breaks. It seems in favor of the source material that McKay and Charles Randolph narrow down to directly tell the complex tale of the 2007-2010 financial crisis. It also helps that the cast ensemble are at their full game through the proceedings; Carell's Baum being the most sympathetic and Bale's Burry as the golden goose. This makes them one of the most compelling casts in a comedy- drama. And a must for "The Big Short" because this is a crucial piece of informative cinema, from the outrageous mind of Adam McKay. "},{"Title":"Reconstruction of the 2008 banking meltdown.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't think of another film like The Big Short. It explains the economic meltdown of 2008 with a rage at the fraudulent banking system and the government that coddles it. But this &#x97; in effect &#x97; lecture is presented as a satiric montage of cultural references woven through the stories of the five principals who bet on the mortgage bubble collapsing and taking the economy down with it. They bet their success on the economy's failure. The five lead figures are variously outsiders who see past the industry's smugness and are disturbed by the banks' corruption and irresponsibility. Each has his own quirks and offbeat temperament &#x97; because only they can strike an outside perspective on the system. Paradoxically, the first to see through that system is the one-eyed maverick, Michael Burry, an MD turned investment broker. We're not told what kind of doctor he is, but to through Wall Street like that he must be a proctologist. In the kingdom of the willfully blind the one-eyed man is king. In contrast, the Standard and Poor exec who reluctantly admits the bond ratings are sham wears dark wraparound shades, that express her inscrutability and compromised vision. At least three &#x97; Burry, Mark Baum and Ben Rickert &#x97; are idealists, with an earnest desire to see justice served on the corrupt banks. Charlie Geller and Jaimie Shipley are spirited young hustlers itching to crack the closed game. Our interest in the five engaging men gives this economics lesson a real hook. The human drama brings the financial story to life. Adding to the film's humour and wild spirit, director Adam McKay tosses in comic inserts. In a bubble bath a sexy champagne-sipping blonde explains one matter of high finance, a famous chef another. To distance itself from its corrupt characters, sometimes a character admits to the camera that a scene didn't really happen the way it's being played. Sometimes for emphasis he tells us that an outrageous scene actually happened that way. This reminds us we're watching a story more truthful than the usual "based on&#x85;" fictionalization. This is our financial system and government at "work."The montage of shots from the media, from a tent city, from activities across the American social spectrum, make a key point about this bursting of the mortgage bubble. The drama didn't happen in isolation, however detached the moneymen may be. As the retired Rickert reminds his two celebrating colleagues, the social collapse inherent in the short-sellers' success means thousands will lose their jobs, their homes, their pensions, their futures, their families and lives. The mortgage bubble didn't happen in a bubble but with wide-ranging and real, tragic consequences for thousands of innocents. The cultural references remind us that the cut-throat capitalism we see here is not a freakish exception but indeed an essential element of the capitalist culture. Indeed the film packages the dense information and historic reconstruction as a very human story, primarily through our engagement with the characters, but also through the comic play in the additional material. The sombre subject matter closes with the ominous warning that the same corrupt practice continues, with no reform to the economic system and virtually no punishment for the fraudulent bankers whose greed almost destroyed the world economy. But the human stories, the jokes, the rich vein of visual material, make this tragedy feel almost comic. The film doesn't change the economic fraud or end the greed, but it makes the hard lesson not just palatable but a pleasure. Perhaps the film's key justification is the quote from Mark Twain: "It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so." Now we know how wrong our trust was in our economic system, in our banks and our brokers, and in the government that's supposed to place the common weal ahead of its rich friends'. From novelist Haruki Murakami comes the climactic resignation: "Everyone, deep in their hearts, is waiting for the end of the world to come." Bernie Sanders must love this film. "},{"Title":"As $5 trillion was stolen and 200,000 Middle Class Americans slain . . .","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" . . . U.S. Fat Cat Bankers laughed--all the way to their Banks, THE BIG SHORT documents. Since these Banks bought Obama, W., Congress, and ALL Federal Courts and "Bank Regulators," these Bank Robbers (that is, robbers running Banks) divvied up an extra $5 trillion on top of their chump change 8-figure annual bonuses. THE BIG SHORT shows that these Bankers own the Wall Street Journal, Fox News, and the rest of U.S. Media, which is why the outrageous story of these 200,000 Banker murders and 8 million stolen homes is almost totally suppressed right up till today, and not a peep of citizen outrage hits the media. As long as Americans have to claw tooth and nail to keep their TVs going from one meager paycheck to the next, no one has a moment to question the System. We callously dismiss our killed-off brothers and sisters, as well as homeless parents and kids as cases of "bad luck," or the "cost of doing business" for the "privilege" of breathing in America. When the Banks say "Jump!" we simply quiver, "How high?" We cannot organize, since the Banks own all the media. THE BIG SHORT suggests that a few thousand (or hundred) Big Bankers will continue to doom the rest of us to increasingly tiny, hopeless, more squalid existences. We Nation of Sheep probably will simply cross our fingers and hope to be dead the next time Bankers have an itch to steal $5--or $50--trillion in one fell swoop. "},{"Title":"Financial crisis.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" -The Big Short is a 2015 American biographical comedy-drama film directed and co-written by Adam McKay. It is based on the 2010 book of the same name by Michael Lewis, about the financial crisis of 2007&#x96;2010 brought on by the build-up of the housing market and credit bubble. The film stars Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, and Brad Pitt. The film had a limited release in the US on December 11, 2015, by Paramount Pictures and a wide release on December 23, 2015.--Critical response: -The Big Short has received positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 87%, based on 156 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. The website's consensus reads, "The Big Short approaches a serious, complicated subject with an impressive attention to detail &#x96; and manages to deliver a well-acted, scathingly funny indictment of its real-life villains in the bargain." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 81 out of 100, based on 44 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". On CinemaScore, audiences gave the film an average grade of "A&#x96;" on an A+ to F scale. IGN gave the film a score of 8.6/10, praising its "energetic direction" and making "a complicated tale palpable for the layperson even as it triggers outrage at the fatcats who helped cause it." The New York Times's "UpShot" series claimed The Big Short offered the "strongest film explanation of the global financial crisis." "},{"Title":"Informative and entertaining although it relies on gimmicks","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is the first attempt from Adam McKay to direct a serious drama about the housing crisis in 2008. However, this one can be qualified as a comedy drama and an all-star cast. The result is a very good movie that goes out of its way to explain the causes of the financial crisis only with a lot of flair.Good: The cast overall are really good. Steve Carrell is really good here as the main good guy of the movie and adds to his drama repertoire after his Oscar nomination for Foxcatcher. Christian Bale also turns in a great performance as a economics expert who is a bit socially awkward, but he is very smart and knew of the crash beforehand. Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt have lesser roles, but they were entertaining nonetheless. McKay obviously has a passion for this subject as he pushes a lot of information into this movie, but he chooses a documentary style way of filming along with some of his comedic leanings to make it digestible.Bad: The directing style can be very gimmicky at times. McKay introduces a lot of lectures of sorts to explaining key details about the housing market which also includes celebrity cameos. This directing style can be obnoxious and distracting especially with the vast amount of terms being driven into our heads. I don't think the movie completely succeeds in making the information easy to understand seeing how the rapid fire editing can still make things cloudy in order to understand the material.Overall, McKay does his best in delivering a worthy movie that exposes the greed of the big banks along with getting some great performances and a lot of style in order to avoid the material from being too dry. However, that style can wear thin through the two hour plus running time can get tiresome in spots. "},{"Title":"Good insight, valuable information... and that's it.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now, for those of you (myself included) appreciating a good story in a movie, this film is going to be disappointing. It's the perfect example how you can have a very strong fact and some pretty good characters but still get it wrong. The fast cutting, mixed news and archive footage flash-backs simply won't replace the story(telling). I had to fight throughout the entire film with the impression that the director is trying too hard to find a better and more shiny way to tell his story, probably because he felt it was too complicated, too snobby for a wide audience. Nevertheless, you can see some very fine acting, especially from Christian Bale. And, of course, you can get yet another point of view for the big financial crisis that we're all still licking our wounds from. Worth seeing, but rather on TV or rental, so you can skip it if it becomes too annoying. "},{"Title":"The Big Short Falls a Bit Short","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Four denizens in the world of high-finance predict the credit and housing bubble collapse of the late-2000s, and decide to take on the big banks for their greed and lack of foresight.As the Oscar ceremony approaches (slowly but surely), the front-runner for best picture is said to be "Spotlight", with "The Big Short" named as a possible usurper. But right up front, let it be made clear: that possibility is slim. Although this is certainly an important film, it is not necessarily a great film.The film is nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay, and on that front, it has a real chance. The writers took what should be a dry, boring subject and made it somewhat interesting by adding humor and some unexpected cameos. A serious attempt was made to explain Wall Street in terms that everyone can understand. But one of the reasons it will not win Best Picture is because it never quite succeeds in explaining certain things. Comparing CDOs to soup makes sense, and using blackjack to explain why "hot hand" statistics and odds are false is wonderful. But even the very core concept of the film -- betting against something -- is never as clear as it should be. (And it does not help that Margot Robbie mumbles through her lines.) The script, which again is very good, should perhaps have been streamlined before filming. Most of the time we are in a sort of fast-paced world, a place Rosalind Russell of "His Girl Friday" would have appreciated. But we get bogged down with subplots that do not matter. The montages showing time passing added nothing, and the whole bit about Steve Carell's character dealing with a suicide did not matter. Yes, they flesh out his character, but in a story with so many protagonists, it makes no difference.Speaking of Carell, some say he got snubbed for an acting nomination. That is a fair complaint. In recent years, he has shown himself to be much more than the guy from "The Office" or "Evan Almighty". He stood out in "Foxcatcher" (for which he was nominated), and he goes above and beyond that here. Playing Mark Baum may be his best role to date.The Academy did decide to nominate Christian Bale. There is no argument that Bale is not one of the finest actors in the business, from "The Machinist" and "American Psycho" up through his recent work. He successfully portrays a man with Asperger's (without going over the top) and a glass eye. It is a great role. Will he win? Probably not, but only because Supporting Actor is shaping up to be one of the toughest categories this year. Both Mark Ruffalo and Mark Rylance are strong, so it seems likely one Mark or the other is getting the award.Again, Best Picture seems woefully out of reach, which leaves the other big category: Best Director. This is a huge feather in the cap of Adam McKay, because he is not typically associated with Oscar-worthy film. This is the guy who brought us the Funny or Die website, as well as "Anchorman" and "Step Brothers". He makes great movies, but movies of an altogether different type. Up against heavyweights like Inarritu and Tom McCarthy, this win seems far-fetched.Judging based on the Golden Globes (which is no sure indicator), "The Big Short" is the sort of film that gets several nominations, but few wins. At the Globes, it took home zero. With the Oscars, it might have a shot at Adapted Screenplay (as noted above), but will likely go home empty-handed. By no means is this a bad movie (it clearly is among 2015's best), but unfortunately for those involved, it will be edged out by different movies in each category and may be the film with the most unfulfilled nominations. "}][{"Title":"The Big Short, comes up short","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short tells the tale of the only people who saw the financial disaster of 2008 coming, fringe Wall Street-ers and bankers who were just outside the fray enough to truly see what was going on. We learn about the disaster that took place within the housing market through four parallel story lines, all of which taking place in 2005. The first involves Michael Burry (Christian Bale), an eccentric former physician who has gained almost complete autonomy in his work due to his incredible financial savviness. He explains to his investors that the housing market has been propped up upon an unsustainable bubble and is on the brink of bursting within a couple years. He wants the support of his investors in his aim to bet against the housing market, because he is so sure the bubble is to burst. Burry fights an uphill battle, as nothing was seen more stable than the housing market before the crash, as it had never in history sustained an economic blow. The bank is fully willing to take Burry's money as he proceeds to bet against the housing market, completely confident they are in for a big pay day. We also meet Mark Baum (Steve Carell), the finance worker completely fed up with the fraud and greed of corporations and Wall Street. Baum is outspoken and unapologetic; a crusader who realizes the depth of corporate corruption, but it still surprised and sickened by its gravity. "these are real people, people who will lose their homes and their jobs" Baum states disgustedly when he starts to see how deep the corruption has come in the housing market. Troubled by his own family tragedy, Baum fought against the banks, making the same sort of bets against them that Burry was making. Then there is Jared Vannett (Ryan Gosling), a Deutsche Bank trader who exudes over confidence, and embodies the personality of someone who is never told "no". His sole interest is to maximize capital for his investors, and sees his way of betting against the housing market as a sure payoff. Finally, there is Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), a retired super-investor who moved to Colorado and lives as off the grid as he can to escape the atrocities he was a part of in the financial sector. He acts as a mentor to two young men with a startup desperate to get more money, and a seat at Big Bank's table. A mix of motivations and interests guide the audience through the worst financial disaster of our lifetimes.Of all the things I thought could go wrong with The Big Short, pacing is not one I expected. I never thought getting the four story lines out there and fleshing out the difficult to understand bank lingo would be something told on-screen too slow, but it was. With so much to uncover and reveal about each individual, character development was only close to explored with Steve Carell's Mark Baum. The audience learns little about the other three story lines involved and is left with no real hero to side with. Granted, there is little to like, I suppose, about investors betting against the housing market and only getting their big pay day in the event of a global financial crash; further character development, however, would have went a long way in engaging the audience in the film. Unless of course you were engaged by the needless pop culture heavy devices to explain banking terms; i.e. a cameo by Selena Gomez, and Margot Robbie in a bubble bath. These injections of comedy and pop culture were immensely distracting and brought the viewer too far out of the world of the film. Overall, The Big Short was a disappointment considering the cast and storyline it had to work with. Questionable film styles also did little to endear this film to my heart.The cinematography was horrendous in this film. What I can only assume was an attempt at the look of a docu-drama; a hand-held camera was used for much of the shooting of this film. The problem with the docu- drama realism is that it didn't mesh with the big budget look of the film, and just turned out to be migraine inducing shakiness. Everything was too slow, and by the time it was finished we only got a short introduction to the main players within but outside of the game. The only bright spot to this film was the acting, with one big exception; Christian Bale. Bale is the type of actor that only touches what turns to gold, and I understand he learned enough drums for his role in the film to fit his portrayal which shows his commitment as an actor. Bale nailed the zaniness of Dr. Burry, but forgot to expose the intelligence. A man that is supposed to come off as a socially awkward genius came off heavy on the socially awkward and light on the genius. Steve Carell played his tormented idealist fantastically, and it is truly a miss for the Academy that he wasn't recognized for this role.If only the director, Adam McKay had more trust in the intelligence of his audience. Trust that he didn't have to embed pop culture reference at every turn and use beautiful big name actresses to interrupt the story. Had this film been done with a more serious tone, I believe it would have been deserving of all the attention it garnered from the Academy. But alas, we are left with another film propelled by a big name cast that could have been great&#x85;if only. "},{"Title":"Concepts of High Finance Made Easy and Fun","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I finally learned the meaning of big high-finance words like synthetic CDOs, MBS, shorting, sub-primes, hedge funds, bonds and so on. Cognitive thoughts flew in my face at the speed of light and big high-finance words bombarded me at Mach3. This is scathingly funny, whip smart, surprisingly intelligible to laymen and a crackerjack of a movie and the best part is it actually has a conscience beating at its centre. In 2005, eccentric and socially awkward hedge fund manager Michael Burry (Christian Bale) discovers that the U.S. housing market is extremely unstable, being based on subprime loans that are high risk and providing fewer and fewer returns. Predicting that the market will collapse sometime in the second quarter of 2007, he realizes that he can profit from this situation by creating a credit default swap market, allowing him to bet against the housing market. Banks thought that he is giving "free" money and accept his proposal. Burry faces pressure from every direction and finds solace in his Death Metal. He continues to beat the drum at his own pace and eventually brought in 489% profit while the rest of the world are covered in red. Then we have a trader named Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling) who hears of Burry's actions from one of the bankers he dealt with, and soon realizes that Burry's predictions are true. He decides to put his own stake in the credit default swap market. A misplaced phone call alerts hedge fund manager Mark Baum (Steve Carell) to his plans, and Baum is convinced to join Vennett. Baum is a man who sees the world as one big giant surreal Enya MTV and he runs in counterpoint to everyone, circling the brim of anger and madness. Finally, we have a pair of eager young investors Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Wittrock) who discover a flyer by Vennett and also decide to become involved in the credit default swaps. Since they are too inexperienced to pull off the trades necessary to profit from the situation, they enlist the aid of retired banker Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt). Together these individuals discovered the groundwork for the financial crisis of 2007-2010 and managed to profit enormously from it, but are ultimately left with their faith in the system shaken. This isn't a poor to riches or a "I told you so" story. These people are drawn like antiestablishment reluctant heroes calling out the big financial institutions for their greed and lack of foresight. In the midst of the narrative's relentless propulsion it retains a compassion for the everyday American without the histrionics. For a movie with so many high concepts flying around, it is surprisingly easy to understand. Part of its marvel is that the film employs a very creative way of making the concepts digestible and scintillatingly funny. Imagine Margot Robbie in a tub, Selena Gomez in a casino and Anthony Bourdain in a kitchen using simple setups and tools to explain the high finance concepts. It is so funny but yet educational. The best one has to be the one using Jenga bricks to explain the housing bubble. These are scary big financial terms invented to screw with your brains but after this 2-hour tutorial you will be smarter. I guarantee you will remember the concepts better than what your university professor had lectured. The energy is recklessly infectious and I was easily caught in a whirlwind of euphoria. Using an unreliable narrator who breaks the fourth wall and even lays out all the Hollywood contrivances, we get a very entertaining film that throws everything including the kitchen sink at you. A film that is so top heavy should by logical sense be bogged down by the sheer weight of its self-importance, but Adam McKay didn't make that film. Thankfully, in the midst of all the reckless abandonment, it retains a core of seething anger at the fraud of the institutions which were at last bailed out by the very taxpayers they were out to screw in the beginning. Contrary to what Gordon Gekko has proclaimed, greed is not good. "},{"Title":"Some parts are okay but a lot was confusing and boring","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I didn't enjoy this movie that much even though I was interested in the subject matter. I think it was just that how these people shorted the market isn't that interesting an aspect of the crisis. It's technical and boring. There were some good points here and there.The good points first: The little explanations of the toxic products were illuminating. The way the main protagonists found out about the depth of the crisis was also entertaining. There are some interesting moments like how S&P gave out their AAA rankings.The bad points: The main characters are just not very interesting to make a movie about and you don't feel for any of them or understand what they are talking about for a lot of the movie. Christian Bale's character was kind of uninteresting. The wake you up strippers and music were kind of daft and spoiled the tone. The conflict that Steve Carrell's character or Brad Pitt's character felt about making money from the crisis wasn't very genuine. There are 2 movies about the financial crisis that are much better about the crisis itself: the HBO movie "Too Big to Fail" and the excellent "Margin Call". I understand that "The Big Short" wasn't trying to tell the same story and it was showing things from the POV of these people who shorted. It may have the nominations and the A list movie stars but it ranks below both of the above in terms of clarity and entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining Financial Lessons","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Financial and economy facts related drama will always trigger sleeping mode of the audiences but exceptionally, this turns out to be surprisingly fast-paced, entertaining and funny. Adapted from Michael Lewis' book about 2008 global financial crisis, the screenplay from director Adam McKay co-writing with Charles Randolph does not broadcast the audiences directly to understand tonnes of financial theories, but to engage and enlighten through another creative way by mixing this dry lessons with parody and satire. Without a significant hero, the choice of the cast is definitely perfect - Bale, Carell, Gosling and Pitt perform extremely well, together with the supporting casts to play around with mortgage, subprime rates and credit debts. Despite illustrating this subject in a triumphant way, it has also successfully delivered self- awareness regarding desperation, political corruptions and collateral damages in economy slowdown; leaving an impression of skepticism on Wall Street while restoring some faith in Hollywood's capability in making great films. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but added nothing new","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There should have been a good story here but the main problem is that it offered nothing new that the audience didn't already know. I wasn't personally directly effected by the crash, as I don't own a mortgage, that being said it effected everything else such as the economy after the bailouts so effected me in that way. In some way it was interesting to see a different perspective on the causes of the crash and see it all play out.Another issues is that this movie is too complicated to understand for a layman, and the movie admits this itself by having those 2-3 minute moments when they get celebs like Margot Robbie trying to explain something while taking a bath, I mean come on that was just stupid. If a movie is that complicated, don't make it as the audience will become disinterested and less enjoyable.Hollywood should never really complicate a story as it will capture a larger audience. One of the reasons I love the Other Guys with Will Farrell and Mark Walberg is that they covered the Wall Street Crash but made it simple to understand.Yet I will say that some of the actors were excellent and I am starting to see the next Tom Hanks in Steve Carell, moving from comedy to drama. I was surprised with Christian Bale as he looked disinterested and not convincing is his role. But I think Carell deserves a shout at the Oscars even though he won't win, he deserves a nomination at least. "},{"Title":"Well-made black comedy for adults about a tough topic","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film assumes of the audience that we are old enough to know what bonds and mortgages are, that bonds are rated on a letter system, and what a FICO score is. If you have this level of basic knowledge going in, you will have no problem following the film's clever and entertaining explanations of CDO's, CDS's, synthetic mortgage bonds etc. This is not a madcap caper. It's a sobering look at how mass stupidity, self-delusion, and greed resulted in the crash of 2008. I read Michael Lewis's book and I was curious to know how it would be translated into a film. Lewis's book points out the role of the Federal Government in loosening lending requirements and in abolishing Glass Steagall; the film doesn't touch that aspect of the story. Instead it focuses on the obsessive outsiders who actually read the contents of the mortgage bonds and couldn't believe what they saw.The ensemble cast is excellent, and the various threads are drawn together expertly toward the looming disaster. The metaphorical relationships and settings equate American capitalism with gambling in Las Vegas. The house always wins and the losers are the average chumps. The film subverts the satisfactions of the "heist" genre because the victory of the "heroes" (Burry, Baum etc.) comes at great cost to everyone else, even though there is satisfaction in seeing these prophets in the wilderness vindicated. Ultimately, this movie is about how difficult socially and financially it can be to tell the truth, even when it's in plain sight. If you lived in New York or in Florida at that time, you will chuckle at the evocation of the bubble period (not that long ago but it seems like a million years ago). "},{"Title":"An Inciting and Insightful Movie","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" American comedy directors/writers have been getting a bad reputation over the last decade. The visual grammar of American comedies has gotten to the point of glorified improv as proved from the yearly Will Ferrell vehicles to Hollywood's insistence that Kevin Hart is a leading man. Adam McKay has certainly been no stranger to such rigmarole and truth be told I have written him off as a comedic dilettante of nearly Todd Phillips-like proportions. The Big Short may not be McKay at his most serious or even at his most ambitious yet there is a alluring mix of humor, pathos and true-story tropes that may have just changed the grammar of both comedy and biography for the better.The story follows an ensemble cast of middle-to-high-class white guys who caught onto the ambit of the 2008 financial crisis two years before anyone else. Among them is Dr. Michael Burry (Bale) a California hedge fund manager and admitted "outsider" who became the only one who bothered to check the subprime mortgage loan market in- depth. Leading banks at the time were all too happy to sell him credit default swaps on a housing market that has "never" seen a crash. Then Dr. Burry's investing caught the eyes of others including a duo of young money managers Collins and Geller (Wittlock and Magaro) and all independently looked to short the stocks; i.e. bet against the housing market and the American economy as a whole.If it all sounds complicated, it's because it is. Even the demurring Gosling states this fact in an aside while musing stockbrokers and bankers purposely make it complicated to justify their own position. It's a statement that walks the line between self-evident platitude and mind-boggling absurdity to the point where McKay seems like a laudable choice for director. McKay creates a kaleidoscope of intellectual montage and employs a number of dramatic devices all in the service of a story so ludicrous it must be true. There are asides that boil down the complexities of financial markets into dynamic mini-lessons complete with diagrams and buzz word definitions; there is frenzied footage of news, entertainment and reality TV inter-spliced with the action to create an almost documentary-like pacing and there are even random cameos that are just plain brilliant.Thematically many would link The Big Short to Wolf of Wall Street (2013) or Boiler Room (2000). Those who do are making a mistake. For while avarice and it's consequences are apparent, the common thread here but stupidity. Stupidity in the face of fraud and lack of foresight. Margin Call (2011) brought an equal amount of scrutiny to the financial markets and the regulators who are supposed to mange them. Yet while pre-dating this film by four years, it wasn't the galvanizing force it should have been. It also wasn't quite as entertaining.The Big Short is one of the best films of 2015 and arguably the most important movie about the 2008 financial crisis. It is at all points crass, educational, heartfelt, angry, sincere and riotously hilarious. It features great performances by its largely male cast and the mis en scene can be seen as a meta-analysis of how we view not just the Great Recession but movies as well. In the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan stated, "I discovered a flaw in the model that I perceived is the critical functioning structure that defines how the world works." As we see now, the world works in an almost tragicomedic way. I suppose we've gotten to the point where we can all laugh about the 8 million American who lost their jobs and the trillions of dollars lost; after all, there comes a point where you have nothing left to do but chuckle. "},{"Title":"Nothing scarier than the truth !","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story is simple - a few guys knew the housing market and banks were going to crash and each wondered how to profit from this information before the market reacted.Christian Bale plays the mathematician who figured it out first and over time others caught wind of his research. The financial instruments and definitions are explained outside the story with humour. Some parts of the story (like the trip to Florida) are made more shocking because of the casual nature of those involved.In fairness - if you have money invested in the stock market, after watching this you may seriously consider digging a hole in the garden to bury your treasure or investing in something you understand and control more.I honestly didn't recognise Brad Pitt until his final scene, he was so transformed. Rafe Spall, who seems to be everywhere all of a sudden, has a decent American accent. Marisa Tomei, who is great in everything she does, could have had a bigger part rather than all of the Steve Carell energy.It has a great script and directing but the acting was not extraordinary, perhaps because the story is so gripping. It isn't a thriller in the way 'Margin Call' was because the badie here is the system, 'going along to get along' and a lack of consequences.I suspect more than one person will buy seeds after seeing this film!! "},{"Title":"A story that needed to be told","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a really interesting film based on a crazy story that needed to be told. I will start out by saying this is a film you need to turn your brain on and focus in on it to get what is going on. The film is about corruption, the collapse of the housing market and the people that was in on it. Some having more of a conscience to do the right thing or at least caring more than others. Because it deals with screwing over hardworking Americans by giving them false hope. Now I am not a numbers guy, don't really have much passion for economics and banking. So I was confused about few of the technical terms they share, but this film had my interest and attention all the way through because of how it's constructed and orchestrated. What interested me is how it plays upon human psychology. At that time betting against the housing market was thought of as ludicrous because most people thought the system was stable. However Michael Burry who is a fund manager finds a crack in the system and decides the capitalize upon it. And while this is going on people either think he is crazy or wants to be in on it as well. People got a sniff of this huge money making chance and it revolves around people that wants to be part of it. Despite them basically making money off of the suffering of others. How innocent people will lose their homes, their jobs, their retirement over this. Throughout this crazy story, a lot of integration of logic and equation gets put into action. It is a complex plot, but I thought they did a good job of using certain analogies to help the mainstream audiences get what was going on. More than the directing style, it's the plot which is based on a true story that intrigued me through out the whole ordeal. And because of the cast fit the roles so darn well, except Christian Bale as Michael Burry. I mean he is a good actor and he did a fine job, but he just didn't seem like Michael. So it's not that Christian Bale put on a bad performance, it's a bit of a miscast. However Bale will be a part of marketing this film. To viewers that didn't really know in depth what happened in this huge financial crisis will be in shock. 8.3/10 "},{"Title":"An intriguing, fascinating, often exhausting and flawed tale","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Overall, a pretty great film that manages to work on both a story-telling level and on a character level, despite how busy it all is. The problem is in essence how busy it all is when it didn't need to. All of the side-explanations, the wink-wink, fourth-wall breaking stuff should not have been there. It was all meant for humor more than actual explanations, and that's fine in aim. It just wasn't funny and felt both condescending and just really annoying. The screenplay did a fine job of really telling this story so all of that was just distracting. I also think the editing at times attempts to show off just for the sake of it, but it also was able to provide the story with a much- needed pace. It's a conflicting editing achievement, no doubt. I think both Christian Bale and Steve Carrell provide some fine work, the latter in particular is more convincing here than he was in last year's Foxcatcher. Both are the emotional anchors of the story and they do very well. The entire cast is superb though, and really gives the Spotlight cast a run for their money. "}][{"Title":"Very Imformative","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A huge thank you to opening our eyes to something most of us were not aware of. Also for the update on the new 2015 shenanigans that seem to be the same scam with a different name. We all need to know what is happening in the world. Good to see someone is willing to make such films.As for the portrayal I am not fond of the 'gimmicks' used in this type of movie. If well done then maybe. They were not well inserted into the theme, they were added awkwardly and attached more confusion to what already was a confusing subject to some. Insulting and baby-like explanations that really pulled your thoughts away then your mind had to settle back into the main storyline once again. If meant to lighten up a heavy subject they did not work. Even if the director thought putting Margot Robbie naked in a bathtub, covered only by bubble bath, and having her explain Wall Street terms made them more understandable - she did not. Otherwise well-done and saved by a great cast. "},{"Title":"Housing Crisis which almost wrecked World's economy.","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I do not grasp what Hedge Fund Managers do, or what Collateralized Debt Obligations (CODs), Credit Default Swaps, Mortgage Backed Securities (MPS) and subprime mortgages are, and what it means to "short" something, but director Adam McCay's THE BIG SHORT based on Michael Lewis' book is an excellent film - both comedic and forcefully tragic with many fine actors making this a movie that is both entertaining and deceptively poignant. Surprisingly we do get to understand a lot of what was going on in the fiscal system without having to take a course in the particulars. This is accomplished through visuals - quick flashes of TV shows, cinema and pop stars, artworks, news headlines, sports figures, etc. all subliminally flashing before our eyes embedding the culture of money into our psyches. Throughout the film, there are witty respites whereby the camera exits the narrative, and various actors in wildly strange settings explain Wall Street jargon with idiosyncratic humor to make the "wheeling and dealing" more comprehensible. I left the theater with an abysmal feeling of sadness, my voice cracking and tears in my eyes - not wanting to betray my emotions and my fierce anger at a capitalist system gone completely awry; rigged and fraudulent in handing the money of everyday working people whose pensions, domiciles, and livelihoods were placed into the hands of manipulative, raptor-like greedy banks and money managers. Billions - not millions - of dollars are just abstract numbers to be gambled with as the "party" keeps blasting upwards and onwards, monetary gains piling up, until it all implodes with aftershocks eventually destroying the income, employment and shuttering the homes of millions in the US and globally.Many of the main characters are based on real people who worked for Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns among other firms. Christian Bale is terrific as Dr. Michael Burry, a Cassandra-like figure, an eccentric - characterized by walking around barefooted - who foresaw the mortgage collapse early on, watching banks bundle mortgages which were being given AAA ratings by Moody's and Standard and Poor's without proper examination of the underlying financial integrity of the lenders and borrowers. Burry decides to "short" - to bet on a future housing crisis debacle and is ultimately proved correct.Steve Carrell portrays Mark Baum, an irascible individual, who was one of the few conscience stricken players in the "money game", trying to make participants aware of the looming future cataclysm, but also wrestling with his own hypocrisy in personally profiting from the 2008 world economic bankruptcy. He is an anguished "truth teller" antithetical to most characters engaging in this closed world of financial gains and losses, whose egos get propped up by the insubstantial glint of wealth.The director McCay includes every type of trader - from self-centered, sophomoric "masters of the universe" to those with some integrity and concern for their clients. The editing is quick and incredibly entertaining for a subject that could easily put many of us to sleep. In THE BIG SHORT we are made painfully aware of the collusion of institutions and governmental agencies, all profiting from the deception that the housing market was one of the best and most secure investments to be made. We see the social and human ramifications of this delusion that brought world markets to the brink of financial collapse. Unlike previous films about Wall Street, this is a true story - a tale that is still resonating in our minds and pocketbooks. Many ordinary persons were encouraged and seduced by the easy access to home ownership, low interest rates that often skyrocketed a few years later to the bewilderment of landlords and tenants who had to flee their properties. This drama showed how the Banks were "brought down", but today we are still wondering were they ever punished? Cynicism persists as new ploys and risky gambits continue to be placed before a gullible public by corruptible institutions functioning without legislated safeguards. "},{"Title":"A Film Everyone Should Be Forced to Watch","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short (2015)Adapted from the book by Michael Lewis, The Big Short is the true story of the guys who predicted the eventual crash of the US housing market in the mid 2000's, and if that sounds like the most boring movie you've ever heard of, don't worry, you're dead wrong. Directed by Adam McKay and starring Christian Bale, Ryan Gosling, Steve Carell and Brad Pitt, this is one of the funniest and one of the craziest films of the last year, and at the same time, probably the most infuriating film I have ever seen.One of the best things that this film is able to accomplish, is to break down extremely complicated Wall street jargon and financial principles into everyday language so that everyone can understand them. This is effective for two reasons. Number one; you don't need to be educated on the topic beforehand, which makes this movie accessible to anyone willing to pay attention (and you really do need to pay attention to be able to follow). I have never had an economics lesson in my life, I had no idea what a sub-prime mortgage was, no idea what a credit default swap was, but this movie has a very efficient, funny and direct way of explaining these concepts to the point where I would recommend this flick on pure educational value alone. (Especially if this does NOT interest you.) Number two; it makes it absolutely crystal clear the kind of slimy, disgusting, unconscionable fraud that was taking place right in front of everyone, the kind of criminal activity that went completely unpunished and the blatant outrage that the taxpayers were then asked to pay for the worldwide consequences of those actions. And on top, the film does all of this while being consistently funny throughout its two hour, ten-minute run time.The Big Short is first and foremost an insane movie. From the way it's directed with documentary-like camera work, narration and the breaking of the fourth wall (talking to the camera), to the risky, yet brilliant premise of mixing such dry subject matter with hilarious satire. Also, bear in mind that the film is technically listed as a drama and although I found it to be very funny, not everyone will. While most of it worked for me I will admit that the purposefully crappy camera- work (we're talking crash zooms, extreme close ups and continual movement of the camera) got to be slightly over the top at certain points and I wish that McKay would've turned it down a notch. However, the craziness is necessary to the story, the fact that this could happen is crazy, that everyone knew what they were doing and did nothing to prevent what was coming is absolutely crazy, and if the film wasn't also crazy I'm not sure it would be possible to tell this story in a way that was entertaining, understandable and historically accurate.The acting throughout the movie is phenomenal. Christian Bale as usual is great, Ryan Gosling, fantastic, and Steve Carell, probably the best he's ever been. Brad Pitt gets slightly less to do on screen, but he, as well as the many other actors that feature in the film, also does a fine job. (Pitt was also a producer on the project.)The Big Short is a film that everyone should be forced to watch (yes I really mean forced, just look at what they did to the world, just take a look) it's funny, it's devastating, and the more you think about it, the angrier you'll get. This is a film not just of Paramount Pictures, but of paramount importance.The Big Short: 9/10 "},{"Title":"Love The Book. Hate The Movie","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You don't have to love "The Big Short" the book to hate "The Big Short" the movie, but it helps. The book is about people. Most of Michael Lewis's books tell the same story about outsiders who go against conventional wisdom. His thesis is that to go against the tide, you must be an abnormal person. His books tell the story of their abnormality. The financial world is just the background. In other books, he has used baseball as the background. Billy Beane in "Moneyball", for example.The movie makers invert the emphasis and makes the financial background the foreground and makes the book's fascinating characters little more than decoration. The book is mostly about Mike Burry and explains how he always though of himself as different because of his glass eye, but it turns out that it was really because he had Asperger's Syndrome, which isn't even mentioned in the movie. Instead, we get Christian Bale walking around in bare feet and playing loud music in what is surely one of the worst written characters and shoddiest performances ever to be seen in a major movie. It was just painful to watch and has no resemblance to the Mike Burry of the book They couldn't even be bothered to give him a glass eye, which is the dominant part of his appearance.The reason for the inversion is obvious - so that left wing Hollywood could make an attack on their favorite target, big business. While they got some things right, they selectively omitted a lot. Like how pressure from left-winger politicians like Barney Frank and Mario Cuomo lit the match on the melt down by forcing banks so abandon sound lending practices and give loans poor people who would never be able to pay them back. Or how many state governments tried to reign in subprime lending but were attacked by do-gooder housing advocates and couldn't get legislation passed. Or how the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae used same do-gooder housing advocates to prevent any oversight and allow them to run wild buying subprime securities with losses insured by taxpayer money. Or how academic computer quant nerds told Wall Street that they could sell the subprime securities with virtually no risks. Or how most of the subprime money went, not to first mortgages, but to speculators and refi's, greedy homeowners who used the money to live beyond their means. Most of all, they ignore the fact that the little band of heroes were actually throwing fuel on the fire by buying the credit default swaps. Each credit default swap equaled the creation of thousands of new toxic mortgages.I could go on and on, but you get the idea. If you want to see a good movie about the financial crisis, try "Margin Call". "},{"Title":"A Great Movie, But More Importantly Does A Great Job Explaining A Complicated Subject We Could All Stand To Know More About","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With all the media coverage of the collapse of the U.S. housing market in 2008, anyone who hasn't read the book The Big Short or have an intimate knowledge of the finer details of this event might be dismissive of this movie. It's understandable but it's unfortunate nonetheless. What we were presented with from the media may or may not have been completely accurate, having been filtered through a scope. We need more stories like the ones that are presented here, to help the public grasp what happened and as the film points out, how easily it could happen again.*Minor Spoilers Ahead* Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling) serves as the narrator but we don't actually get to meet his character until later in the feature. He introduces us to what the banking industry used to be in the 1980s, a boring job with an uninteresting salary. Then traders of Salomon brothers changed that by creating mortgage bonds that pooled thousands of mortgages together to create a mortgage backed security. It revolutionized the banking industry and helped banking become one of the most profitable if not the most profitable sector of the American economy and eventually was the primary cause of the 2008 collapse. But as Jared tells us there were a few people who saw this coming and even though they were ostracized and laughed at by the industry leaders, they were eventually proved correct and in the process made millions of dollars off of what would be a horrifying experience for millions of ordinary citizens of the developed world.The Big Short largely centres around 5 characters. Dr Michael Burry (Christian Bale) an eccentric west coast hedge fund manager, Jared Vennett a sleazy trader employed by Deustche Bank who primarily peddles the credit default swaps to financial big wigs, Mark Baum (Steve Carell) may be the most bearish Wall Street hedge fund manager you would come across who runs a fund that is involved with Morgan Stanley, and Charlie Geller (John Margaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn Whitrock) two investors who happen upon Vennett's material on how profitable these swaps could be and decide to do everything they can to get involved. Being an ensemble piece, it's hard to attach yourself to every character that gets a chunk of the screen time but one of the things The Big Short accomplishes is that you get to know all these characters and you get involved in what they're caught up in. They all have distinct personalities (Vennett describes the rest of the main cast as freaks) and are all interesting. You can relate to their struggle even though you're not the one gambling with giant sums of money. We know what's going to happen, we all lived through it in some capacity but I found it more and more gripping as the movie went along and I wanted to know what happened to these people after they finally were exonerated.When I described the characters up above, if you didn't know anything about the tale you might think I was describing a thriller. Thankfully, this is not what the film is. Another feat of the movie is how well the movie balances both the comedic and dramatic aspects of the story. I was laughing really hard at points and I was ready to cry at others but it all fits together pretty organically. Helping this along is the celebrity cameos that appear intermittently and while I don't want to spoil too much about them, they are interesting and surprisingly informative. They help take deliberately confusing concepts and boil it down into something we can understand. To be fair though, you still might not pick up everything that's going on but in terms of things being identifiable, this is probably as close as you're going to get.The acting is award worthy by some and at least satisfactory by all. I thought Steve Carell did the best job as Baum, his character is the closest you get to a moral centre in both the book and the movie and while even though he's not losing his job or his home, like his wife points out, you feel the pain and anger of this crisis through his performance. Christian Bale delivers in fine form as Dr. Mike Burry, throwing his all into it. Ryan Gosling had to stretch the least (in terms of his appearance) in his part but that's offset by how funny he is and how he does such a good job at playing a morally loose dirt bag. Keep an eye out for Brad Pitt in a small role but he nails it as well.The Big Short has great witty dialogue, awards calibre acting, and a message that needs to be taught which they do in an interesting way. My one complaint is that the movie is filmed in a very scatter-shot way and it took me a little while to get used to it but by the halfway point it wasn't a problem any more. Be prepared, the movie is a lot of fun but the ending is a sucker punch to the gut and you will leave ready to bawl or ready to smash something. What happened in 2008 was terrible and as the movie reminds us where these executives got their golden parachutes and avoided jail time (which they frankly deserved), it was the rest of us that had to deal with the mess and the ending doesn't pull punches about that. I was entertained throughout and I can't recommend it highly enough. It would make a great double feature with the fantastic documentary Inside Job, if you're looking to learn a little more about what really went down with the World economic collapse in 2008. "},{"Title":"A Funny, and Educational Drama","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is one of those films that everybody could enjoy, and everybody should see. While the film is not perfect it is very funny, probably because the director is comedy specialist Adam McKay, and is also a somewhat important film because it's very revealing. The Big Short is interesting and educational, features a great ensemble, but is subject to some distracting camera-work. For anybody interested in the 2008 Housing Market Crash this film is perfect.The film begins with narration that addresses the biggest problem the film will have, which is that the Housing Market Crash of 2008 was an extremely complicated issue, that is why so few saw it coming. The story is so complicated, because it requires some understanding of how the housing system worked at the time, which apparently most of the people running the system at the time didn't even have, so the film ends up teaching the audience how the crash happened. That sounds boring, but the film does a brilliant job by doing it through hilarious cameos and lacing the overly informational pieces with humor. The film accomplishes the very hard task of making the mess understandable, and even teaching those interested enough about how it went wrong.When looking at it The Big Short clearly had a great script, with dialogue that just rolls, but in such a complicated movie the acting had to be good. Christian Bale is very good as the wacky Dr. Michael Burry, often embodying the odd personality he was tasked with, and even handling the task of showing a misunderstood genius. The other performer who was terrific was Steve Carell, who has consistently proved that he's not just a great comedy actor. While Carell is known for films like The 40 Year Old Virgin, last years Foxcatcher and now The Big Short prove that he can give a performance with emotional depth, and a sense of humanity.The only thing that the film really doesn't well is it's camera-work, which in such a complicated story seems too distracting. The Filmmakers felt they needed to rely on Close-Ups, rack focuses, and shaky movement. To be clear the film only feels so shaky, because much of the film is shot hand-held, and in close-ups, which will accentuate movement. It's easy with a lot of soft focus, which this film plays with a lot, to be pulled out of the film, and thus it requires even more effort from the audience to follow what's happening. To make an example it's like if somebody pointed at something in a dark cave at night, and then pointed a flashlight in your face, as you looked for it.In the end, The Big Short is a funny, intelligent, well-acted, and interesting view of the few men able to make money when everybody else was losing money hand over fist. The entire ensemble of talented big name actors carry their own weight, and some even rise above expectations. To be honest everybody should watch this film, because it tells the ever important story of how ignorance caused a worldwide meltdown, and we're apt to do it again if we don't learn from our mistakes. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Awesome","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay (the director of Anchorman and Step Brothers) has recently teamed up with Adam Davidson to create a new podcast for Gimlet Media. The premise is simple: take a topic that sounds incredibly uninteresting and present it in a unique light such that people are pleasantly surprised. Recent topics include "mold" and the breakup of the band Chumbawumba. They call it "Surprisingly Awesome". The launch of this podcast coincides with the release of this film which is essentially a feature length visual-driven extension of the series focusing on the subprime mortgage crisis. Throughout, Ryan Gosling serves as our narrator, taking us swiftly through the history of finance and who occasionally breaks the fourth wall as if engaging the audience in a discussion. Instead of lecturing us on esoteric financial terms, though, he cuts to Margot Robbie (in a bathtub), Selena Gomez (at a blackjack table), or Anthony Bourdain (in his kitchen) to illustrate these concepts in a humorous yet accurate manner. Yet McKay takes this one step beyond amusing lecture. He gives us great character development and he builds great suspense despite his audience knowing the ultimate outcome. This is an engaging, humorous and sobering film on an important period of recent history. It may not be enough to incite reform, but it is a powerful piece that can be added to the conversation. "},{"Title":"High Expectations Fulfilled","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With such an all-star cast, I had high expectations for this film, and it lived up to them! Fast paced and smart, these financial tycoons were easy to love and hate! Adam McKay did a wonderful job capturing all the different performances in this film as well as explaining what happened in 2008 with the housing bubble. It was done in a fun way without it getting confusing and boring!Michael Lewis must be proud that his novel has turned into such a Hollywood hit! And with Brad Pitt behind AND in front of the camera, the odds that this movie wasn't going to be amazing were slim. Loved every aspect of this film and looking forward to seeing its cast and crew on the red carpet for a much deserved awards season. "},{"Title":"Quirky and entertaining","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A moving about the financial crash of 2008 sounds both daunting and depressing. After all, most common folks understand nothing about high finance and were just victims of the credit crunch.Turns out that this was a most entertaining movie, explaining among many other things also how big banks make high finance impossible to understand ON PURPOSE. Personally, I am a "common folk" but I always got the impression bankers and financial institutions were out to sc**w me. Turns out I was right, but like the Steve Carell character, saying so does not makes me one bit happy.The plot follow the three main players (and group of players), all involved in finance and among the very few who understood the house market was going to crash because of subprime and fraudulent practices. Despite the heavy subject, the movie is edited in a quirky, entertaining way and all the actors give excellent performances. I particularly liked Christian Bale (never one of my favorites) and Steve Carell. But Gosling was equally good playing unlikable guy from Deutsche as were the two younger guys Magaro and Wittrock. The three actors playing Carell team were equally good. Pitt plays a minor role in an understated way. Wonderful cast with no star performance stealing screen time.You will probably leave the cinema enlightened and embittered, but also a lot more the wiser. "},{"Title":"Bold, energetic, hilarious","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here's something that won't shock you: America's big banks are all kinds of corrupt and full of fraudulent leadership. Here's something that WILL shock you: the movie about that fact is immensely engaging and hilariously entertaining. Director McKay (Anchorman) has found a way to make the financial sector of American economics one of the most spastically fun films in theaters. Without glossing over the sickening and infuriating lack of justice in these too-big-to-fail organizations, The Big Short makes even its most openly educational moments funny and interesting through noble directorial experimentation and bombastic performances. It's 2005, and a small band of misfits and outsiders begin predicting what all of us now know to be true: the housing bubble collapse of 2008 and ultimately the biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression. Who doesn't love an underdog, whistleblower tale, especially when their takedown is targeted at corrupt old billionaires and annoying young dude-bros? However, much like this year's superb Spotlight, we and our protagonists quickly realize that what we're rooting for is more complex than a simple victory. Full of empathy for all involved, the all-star cast is given room to shine, as the story allows for equal parts ethos, pathos and downright hilarity. Most wonderful is the way it plays with the conceit of the "true story". Instead of trying to be too authentic or too Hollywood, it presents each in new and daring ways, never letting its audience get ahead of its story. Did I fully understand the details in the math? Not really. Did it matter? Not at all. Bold and energetic, The Big Short is a numbers movie, but its sum far exceeds its parts. "}][{"Title":"One of this year's best movies!","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Though marketed as a comedy, "The Big Short" covers some very serious issues. Based off of the book with the same title, the film goes in great depth of the reasons behind the 2008 economic catastrophe. The focus is on a group of individuals that foresee the economic bubble burst and decide to take advantage of it. Among them are a savvy, but socially awkward hedge fund manager (Christian Bale), a short-tempered, no-nonsense trader (Steve Carell), a banker seeking a huge payday (Ryan Gosling) and two young investors that want to make it big (John Margo & Finn Wittrock) &#x97; who enlist the help of a retired trader (Brad Pitt).The plot jumps from one group of characters to another, covering nearly every angle possible of the behind-the-scenes financial industry that most everyday people do not know or understand. Even though the multiple subplots and some of the technical jargon in the dialog may prove confusing or daunting for the viewer, director Adam McKay and screenwriter Charles Randolph break the subject matter down enough so that the audience can follow along. Often times, they blend humor (such as characters breaking the fourth wall with one- liners or using a chef to explain CDOs) to get their explanations across. The controversial topic that the movie captures is insanely well-written and the actors perform brilliantly in their roles. Christian Bale went so far into his character that he wore the clothing of the man his performance was based on. However, it is Steve Carell who steals the show. With his disheveled hair and East Coast accent, he is unrecognizable. Like with his work in "Foxcatcher," Carell once again shows that he can do drama. His character has a lot of passion as he tries to make sense of the impending economic disaster. In a way, he becomes the voice of the viewer, wondering how capitalism can spin so far out of control.The only gripe I have with this movie is the heavy-handed message. Like the 2010 documentary "Inside Job," "The Big Short" paints Wall Street and the banks as the main culprits responsible for the economic ruin. As a result, this gives the audience someone to vilify. Besides this personal opinion, "The Big Short" is an exceptional film and one of this year's best. I am probably in the minority here, but I think this is better than the new "Star Wars" movie. It is a film that both entertains and makes you think. "},{"Title":"What A Ride!","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the 2010 book of the same name by Michael Lewis, 'The Big Short' is a paranoid film, that turns out be quite a ride for the viewer! I enjoyed myself watching a scary incident, thanks to sharp, witty Writing, good Direction & terrific Performances!'The Big Short' Synopsis: Four outsiders in the world of high-finance who predicted the credit and housing bubble collapse of the mid-2000s decide to take on the big banks for their lack of foresight and greed.'The Big Short' examines the financial crisis of 2007&#x96;2010 brought on by the build-up of the housing market and credit bubble. Its a true-story & an extremely scary one. I mean, it affected everyone. It was harrowing incident, that shook the world, slowly, but surely.Luckily, 'The Big Short' is approached as a comedy-drama, offering relief & humorous moments, despite its dark nature. Adam McKay & Charles Randolph's Adapted Screenplay doesn't miss a beat & is thoroughly interesting. The Writing doesn't falter at any point! McCoy's Direction is good. He has handled the film well. Cinematography & Editing are finely done.Performance-Wise: Christian Bale, Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling, & Brad Pitt are in peak form. Bale is simply flawless as Michael Burry, adding perfect paranoia to the part. Carell as Mark Baum (based on Steve Eisman), is in tremendous form! What a performance! Gosling as Jared Vennett (based on Greg Lippmann), continues to astonish with his effortlessness. Pitt as Ben Rickert (based on Ben Hockett), is greatly restrained. In Smaller Roles, Melissa Leo as Georgia Hale & Marisa Tomei as Cynthia Baum (based on Valerie Feigen), leave a mark.On the whole, 'The Big Short' is a must see. "},{"Title":""The Big Short" does a very good job overcoming a high degree of difficulty to tell a very important story.","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Because of the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis of 2007-2009&#x85; "The U.S. entered a deep recession, with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and 2009&#x85; U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30% on average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50% by early 2009... The stock market recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated." That was Wikipedia, not me. When I research the historical background of a movie based on a true story, I look at multiple sources, gain a working knowledge of the topic, summarize that knowledge early in my review and use what I've learned to help me write the rest of the review and evaluate the film. Not this time. I'm no financial expert. The best I can do is pick out what seems to be the most appropriate quote that I ran across in my research and encourage other people who, like me, have very limited financial knowledge to study up a bit before seeing "The Big Short" (R, 2:10).Much of that first paragraph talks about the results of the Great Recession, but this story is about the few who saw it coming and profited from that knowledge. The central character is Michael Burry (Christian Bale), an ex-neurologist who became a savant-like hedge fund manager. Looking where he says no one else was willing to look, he came to the conclusion that the housing boom of the early 2000s was actually a housing bubble that was getting ready to burst. He became convinced that the large amount of subprime and adjustable rate mortgages would cause a collapse in the housing market in the second quarter of 2007 and he bet that he was right. Burry used his personal investment capital, and that of his fund's investors, to buy credit swaps from the big banks. This basically amounted to an insurance policy against bundled mortgage funds which would only pay off if the market collapsed. Reasoning that the housing market was "rock solid" and that people always pay their mortgages, financial managers were more than happy to take his money &#x96; and laugh all the way to their banks.The problem for those banks &#x96; and homeowners across the country &#x96; was that Burry was right, although only a small number of people realized it at the time. Burry had to weather severe storms of investor discontent in an effort to hold the credit swaps long enough to profit. As Burry shopped his idea around town, what he was doing became public knowledge. Most people were as perplexed and/or amused that Burry was shorting the housing market as those bankers who sold him those credit swaps, but some were intrigued enough to look into the situation for themselves. Among them was fund manager Mark Baum (played by Steve Carell and based on real-life fund manager Steve Eisman). "Mark" set his team at FrontPoint Partners LLC (a unit of Morgan Stanley) to digging deep into the housing market &#x96; on paper and in person, so they could decide how to proceed. This puts them in business with investor Jared Vennett (played by Ryan Gosling and based on real-life investor Greg Lippmann), a man whose honesty is brought into question more than once during the movie. Two others who catch wind of Burry's scheme are talented and hungry young fund managers Jamie Shipley (based on Jamie Mai and played by Finn Wittrock) and Charlie Geller (based on Charlie Ledley and played by John Magaro) who bring in retired banker Ben Rickert (based on Ben Hockett and played by Brad Pitt) to help them navigate these treacherous financial waters. In short, "The Big Short" is about the people who arrived at the same conclusion about the weak U.S. housing market, what else they learned and what they did about it.This film does as well as could be expected in making its subject matter understandable and compelling and may even be said to exceed expectations. Directed and co-written by comedy writer/director Adam McKay (who only got the job after agreeing to do the second "Anchorman" movie) and based on Michael Lewis' 2010 book, "The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine", this film simplifies and explains things fairly well without dumbing down its subject matter or sacrificing the points it wants to make. Sometimes McKay's actors break "the fourth wall" and talk directly to the camera, while other times celebrities like Margot Robbie, Selena Gomez and Anthony Bourdain show up to take us through object lessons of complex concepts. For the most part, it works. Strong acting from several previous Oscar winners and/or nominees also helps make the plot understandable and lends gravitas to the story. Handicapping the film's entertainment value, there are no heroes in this movie, which boils down to greedy people profiting from other greedy people who took advantage of unwise people. However, the film brings to a mass audience important lessons that we all need to understand on some level. "The Big Short" gets credit for that and for very nearly overcoming its topic's very high degree of difficulty. "B+" "},{"Title":"Short on Truth","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found it ironic that a movie that preached about the truth went out of its way to lie. It's as if the screenwriters started by listing every politically correct message (including blaming the evil 1% - of which Pitt, Carell, Bale, and Gosling are a part) and wrote the story around it. Lies of the movie, the true facts, and where to find them:1. Mortgage funds were greatly profitable for the banks by filling them with riskier mortgages (sub-prime). Banks that did not engage in taking on shorts broke even between the profit from the bonds and losses of sub-primes. HISTORY: 1977: Carter passes the Community Reinvestment Act which still called for sound banking practices. So Carter started this but was not the true architect. 1995: Clinton amends the Community Reinvestment Act to abandon sound banking practices and impose heavy fines to banks if they turn away sub-primes for minorities. These loans were then vetted and backed by Fannie and Freddie. 1999: Clinton repeals the Glass-Steagall Act of 1932 allowing banks to invest in the stock market. 2002: Dems saw fit to exclude mortgages from SOX regulations as no sub-prime mortgages would pass muster, which would effectively end the Community Reinvestment Act. It also gave Fannie and Freddie a license to steal. IN A NUTSHELL: The banks were forced to accept bad mortgages (sub-prime) by the gov't and were losing money. After Glass-Stegall was repealed, the banks put the bad mortgages in bonds to trade them for profit. The people buying and trading the bonds, not the banks, were making a killing (among those people BTW, were the Clintons). 1999 &#x96; 2007: Fannie and Freddie cook their books allowing the problem to balloon into a huge bubble and crash the world economy. An astute federal regulator caught this and hearings pursued. The Dems blocked the hearings and ran interference for Freddie and Fanny to continue to cook the books so no-one would be aware of the coming crash. 2007: Wanting an October surprise, Chuck Schumer's office leaks the true housing numbers to the media. The next day it is reported and public and the economy crashes. The Dems (counting on the ignorance of the public who don't bother to educate themselves) blame the Republicans and get their October surprise. Obama's poll numbers (which were failing since the Republic Convention) go through the roof and he becomes the next President of the US.2. The movies says nobody knew about the upcoming mortgage/banking crisis and no one is paying attention, because the banks are making money hand over fist. This just isn't true. There were warnings about this as early as 7-years before it happened. As I stated before, the gov't knew about this and the Dems kept blocking it from being investigated, resolved, or leaked to the public. This is where the Republicans are also to blame and they also did not 'leak' this info to the public back when the damage could have been managed. This was at the bequest of the Dems to be bi-partisan. Just Google Fannie-Freddie hearings of 2004 to see for yourself. Additionally, Paul Kasriel of Northern Trust on July 30, 2004 (before the geniuses portrayed in the movie every saw this) warned that 60% of banks earnings assets were mortgage related twice as much as in 1986 and if the housing market would go bust, then it would devastate the banking industry and the economy (Forbes).3. The movie first says Greenspan was clueless, then the movie said he was the architect. First, how can Greenspan be clueless if he was also the architect? Second, I've shown above, that Clinton was the true architect of this debacle. Greenspan warned about this in his annual reports but shrugged it off because he miscalculated that the housing market consisted of multiple bubbles so if one failed the others would not be affected.4. The movie shows sub-primes as having been taken by typical white people, knowing full well that the Community Reinvestment Act only applied to minorities. The end of the movie even goes so far as to have Steve Carell monologue about how this will be blamed on minorities and poor people as it always has been in the past. I don't remember a bad economy ever being blamed on poor people. Second, it was the minorities that caused this by taking loans that they couldn't afford because the gov't told them they had it coming to them. The makers of this movie are so afraid that people like me would expose their lies that they take the time to stereotype us by saying we just want to blame minorities as white people always want to do.5. The big banks were wrong for creating the shorting market because they thought it would be easy money. These are the only banks that needed help after the crash. The small and medium sized banks were fine, because they didn't get greedy. The fact that Bush and Obama gave bail-outs to save the big banks is the real crime. Who should have gone to jail: Franklin Raines of Fanny Mae (a gov't appointee who cooked the books and made millions).Instead, Obama rewarded Raines by appointing him as an economic adviser.If I learned one thing from this movie, or more accurately the reviews of this movie: "Why We Should Hate Corporate America," "A Story that Must Be Told;" it's that even with the Internet providing a wealth of information at the touch of a button, the majority of US citizens are woefully ignorant and deserve to be treated like idiots by Hollywood and their government. "},{"Title":"Well...... That was disappointing......","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Big Short', nominated for Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Director, Best Editing, and Best Adapted Screenplay.... and i have just one question. Why? I thought the trailer looked pretty good, it was about a somewhat interesting topic that i knew jack about, but with big names attached and a very positive response, i was expecting more, a lot more. This is not going to be a popular opinion as clearly lots of people love this movie, but i must have missed something, or lots of things as for a good 50% of this film i was bored out of my mind. This was a Drama/Biopic focusing on a very serious and from what i gathered very complex topic revolving around the collapse of the economy, bank stuff, the housing market, and a tonne of other stuff i have no idea about. So it had an uphill task from the beginning, trying to get me interested in the film for 2 hours. And in the end, it only managed to do that for about half of the film. I thought the acting was definitely a positive from everyone, the flicker of humour was well implemented and some unique or interesting choices made in the editing of the film had me really enjoying it at some moments. But everything else..... yeh not so great.The film started out rather engaging, being introduced to all these various characters was fun. It had a serious yet slightly quirky tone, and i gotta say it was great that they kept that tone consistent the whole way through. I was following what was going on, and it was going at a nice calm pace allowing me to pick up most things and piece things together. The film at this point was very interesting and entertaining and had pleasantly surprised me with the editing choices made so far. And that lasted for about an hour, then it just kept going, and going, and i began to lose interest fast, to the point where 20 minutes later i just wanted this thing to be over. I was barely following what was going on with all these numbers and who all these people were and their connections to the story, and it severely hurt my enjoyment of the film. The film even tries to carry people along by stopping the film to have various famous faces explain some of the concepts and banking terms being used. Now although i found these moments surprising and rather fun to watch, i was still just as lost afterwards as i was before. All of this may just be my inability to understand what was going on, or the story maybe was presented in a shitty incomprehensible manner with terrible writing. I'm not right and i'm not wrong.The acting all across the board was really good, Steve Carrell did a great job as whoever he was, Ryan Gosling put in a strong performance, Brad Pitt was good i guess, and Christian Bale did a great job also and was probably the best of the bunch. They definitely committed to their roles and each one of their personalities felt different and their characters at times had some very interesting dialogue and things to say. But their performances just couldn't get me invested in what was going on. The humour was well delivered, i laughed a few times, and it was a pretty nice blend of humour into this very serious topic and breathed a bit of fresh air into the film. But for me, after that half way point i just couldn't appreciate any of that stuff anymore because i was so bored from my lack of interest in what was going on. I am not saying this is a god awful movie, and i'm definitely not saying that it doesn't deserve to be nominated for all of those Academy Awards, but if it was up to me, Terminator Genisys would be up for Best Picture before i even consider this.So if you really want to see this film, go right ahead, you will probably get something out of it that i most certainly did not. If you end up agreeing with me that's great, if you end up completely disagreeing with me then that's even better.4.8/10 "},{"Title":"Wow!!!  Every detail of the collapse of wall street","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can i say but wow! We have heard all of the stuff about wall street but really didn't have a clear explanation that everyone in the U.S.A., and the world, could understand. Well, that had now changed. This movie will stop when a new concept is introduced and explain what it is with a new character coming into the picture who was just in the background as an extra and they explain it with fish, another with cards, and so on. Simple, but not making you or them look stupid. Even the ones that shorted the market got screwed, so sit back and enjoy. This was a movie more than a documentary, yet would stop and the character would talk to the camera and tell you what really happened. I have never seen such good work and i have seen everything. If you are into wanting to know what the heck kicked us in the you know what, then this is the one you have been waiting for. This is such a good performance by Brad Pitt, who is always great. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Films of 2015!","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just finished The Big Short- blows Spotlight out of the water! I loved it. The first 10 minutes made me think it was trying to ripoff The Wolf of Wall Street and GoodFellas with "gangsta tawk" voice- overs and camera stills, but trust me- this is not a distraction once the story gets going. While Spotlight focuses on the topic of scandalous Priests and the Catholic Church, The Big Short focuses on the housing market crash and corporate greed. In terms of topics alone, Big Short feels more important. I'm not downgrading the former movie's subject matter and dismissing it entirely. I'm simply stating Big Short already has a theme voters will relate to more.Now let's get to the rest. First of all, Kudos to Adam McKay- this is a splendidly vibrant and compelling movie, and his direction is quick and alive. I think he's a VERY strong contender for Best Director, not only in the nomination department- but also the win. We'll see what DGA says, but right now he's in my predictions. The acting was stronger then the ensemble work in Spolight, the former movie having a solid cast but no one seemed to really come to life save Tucci and Ruffalo. Where as here, EVERYBODY is electrifying. Christian Bale and Steve Carell are the standouts, and Bale def deserves a nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Carell also - WOW- just didn't expect him to be this good after being slightly underwhelmed with his work last year in Foxcatcher. But he's brilliant in this- and both him and Bale are also very funny! I also enjoyed Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, Finn Wittrock, Jeremy Strong, John Magaro and Marisa Tomei (the latter being a relief to see playing a wife who's actually the proper age; if this movie had been directed by David O. Russell, ten points for guessing who he would have cast). The screenplay is also fresh and informative. Even if you're someone like me who doesn't understand all the fundamentals or backdrops for what caused the housing market crash or how banks operate, this movie breaks it down so it's a little more clear- and in fun, innovative ways including a cameo by Selena Gomez playing blackjack in Las Vegas. I know Spotlight is still the favorite, but with a year so open and full of surprises- looking for an alternative to go against it might be The Big Short and not the sci-fi threesome (which may be a two pair or just a loner by Oscar Nomination morning). The Golden Globes are on January 10th- and if any movie is beating The Martian for the Comedy Globe, this is your horse to bet on. The SAG Ensemble award also could be going to The Big Short cast, which in my eyes did a hell of a better job then Spotlight's must quieter group "},{"Title":"A genuinely great movie. On my all-time best list.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. It uses creative film-making techniques (film buffs will love it), it is entertaining and suspenseful from start to finish, it has a powerful sense of humor, it pulls up big emotions in an honest, non-cheesy way -- and most of all, it puts the truth about something BIG that's wrong and evil in the world in a plain and blunt way. The director is known for big, satirical comedies like Talladega Nights and Anchorman, and here he makes use of really wicked (good) satire to tell the story of the financial collapse of 2008 in a way that stays interesting and, for most of the movie, a lot of fun. The fact that the movie is so skillfully crafted and so enjoyable to watch only makes the impact of the real tragedy at the end (the financial crash and the fact that most of the crooked bankers GOT AWAY WITH IT) that much greater. Just like a good heist movie, the 'heroes' make their score -- but no one is cheering. (And, whoa, they got a Led Zeppelin song to run with the credits!!) "},{"Title":"A little one sided","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short does a good job of showing the flaws in the system and criminalizing the actions of the big banks and ratings agencies. A very interesting and entertaining perspective.While it shows the evidence that the general public was also to blame for the housing demise, i.e., distracted by pop culture, purchasing multiple subprime mortgages. It doesn't point the finger back in their direction. As if the American Public are susceptible, but ignorant, and their ignorance is OK because the government will not only bail out the banks, but the American Public as well. It emphasizes the American Public is paying the price, but shouldn't they be held accountable too?That is the main problem with the movie. The movie is very patronizing, and the cameos to explain in layman's terms are only describing the surface level points. The attempt at humor is appreciated, but could be avoided by taking the time to explain the industry lingo that is used. As several people have noted, they will watch a second time to fully understand.It also does not define a "big bank" to lead the audience to believe all banks and bankers are bad. It doesn't do a good job differentiating a "wall street" banker from the person who helps your small business or helps you obtain a "real" mortgage.This movie will confuse, outrage, and ultimately stir the pot for those who have no knowledge of or interest in the financial world.It does however portray the cynics as protagonists, so that can be appreciated. "},{"Title":"Pyhrric Victory","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Remember Alex Gibney's brilliant doc "Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room"? Remember how high that made your blood boil? Now imagine that movie spiced up with some killer humor & some great performances then you get this movie. ("The Wolf of Wall Street" confessing its sins.)Christian Bale, Steve Carell & Ryan Gosling (who I've always viewed as best seen on a poster in some sorority girl's room i.e. over-rated as an actor) all give knock out efforts in this extremely well cast, well edited & extremely well written film.It is as brainy as my other "10" film of the year, "Ex Machina". It has all of the moral outrage of anything I've seen in quite a while. Despite all of the laughs in it --which come at you from all angles & often quite unexpectedly-- this is NOT a "feel good" movie. It's morally complex because you are rooting for the guys who are betting on the collapse of the American economy.There may be (has, see "Ex Machina") films as good as this one this year, but there won't be a better one. "}][{"Title":"More Like a Hollywood Lecture on How Bad Wall Street is than it is a Movie","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie had the feel of an old ABC After School Special more than it felt like an entertaining movie (dating myself). It felt like a Hollywood lecture and when the screenwriters felt incapable of writing a scene to convey a point, they just had the actors speak directly to the audience to explain a concept and describe how evil it was. It had a very didactic, instructional tone to it. Though much more stylized and sophisticated than they likely receive in North Korea. Yes, Wall Street banks made hay with mortgage backed securities, but a lot of people had blood on their hands including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, from pressure from government officials that felt everyone deserved to own a home whether they were financially qualified or not. This movie portrayed all the people shorting the market and reaping huge profits as reluctant moralizing crusaders. The acting was mostly melodramatic and Steve Carell was terrible and miscast as a brilliant investor. Nothing about him screams brilliant. Annoying, yes; brilliant, no. The saddest part about the movie is that most viewers will see it as a tell all on the financial crisis because they'd rather get their news from Hollywood than from the research. And, in the end, that's what Hollywood wants; to advance it's point of view and, ahem, make gobs of money along the way. "},{"Title":"We never learn!","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adam McKay (Writer, Director, Actor and part of the team behind "Funny or Die") tackles the complicated retelling of the credit and housing bubble crash of the mid 2000's through the eyes of quirky hedge fund manager/mathematic Michael Burry (Christian Bale), FrontPoint Partner Mark Baum/Steve Eisman (Steve Carell), Deutsche Bank investor Jared Vennett/Greg Lippman (Ryan Gosling) and Cornwall Capital partner Ben Ricket/Ben Hockett (Brad Pitt), all big and small plays who along with their varied partners saw where the banks were heading. Note: Based on real characters, only Bale's character's name is actually used in the film. While it's evident the banking community has not learned from their mistakes, the film does brings into perspective what the banking system was/is doing, why the collapse occurred and what a few people saw and tried to do before and after the world came crashing down. McKay has gathered another one of 2015's great ensembles, with awards recognition talk for all involved. However, Bale's quirky and old ball character is the stand out here. Your head may be spinning from all the financial lingo tossed around in this film, but McKay (through the use of several terrific camera appearance explanations) does his best to put things into laymen terms. "The Big Short" is an engrossing film, bringing to light a terrible time in our recent financial history. "},{"Title":"A Must-See Film for All Americans","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short should be required viewing for everyone in the world affected by the financial crisis in 2008, which means almost everyone in the Western world and certainly everyone in America. Michael Lewis seemed to be one of the few journalists who actually understood what was going on and described it to readers in his book while Fox News was blaming the whole thing on a few deadbeat homeowners who didn't know the difference between a variable rate mortgage and money left on the street. Even the film tried to place at least part of the blame on strippers with a couple of home equity loans which is complete crap. One of the conversations in the book went something like this: "Who would take out a loan on a house if they couldn't make the first payment?" This was countered by Steve Eiseman, "Who would give a home loan to someone who couldn't make the first payment?"The housing meltdown was the biggest crime in US history and, as the film points out, no one went to jail for it except one unlucky Wall Street slob. The truth is that the police should have taped off all of this end of Manhattan and designated it a crime scene and out courts should have brought a huge crowd of people to justice. Instead no laws were changed and the same thing, or something even worse, is likely to happen again sooner rather than later.The film does a marvelous job not only of making the technical details understandable to the layman but in making a supremely entertaining film (the most important thing in cinema). Spoiler Alert: The bad guys win in this movie. The rest of us lost and will continue to lose until we stand up and do something about it. "},{"Title":"A stupid person's idea of what an intelligent movie about Wall St would be like.","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When a few groups of Wall St traders see in home mortgages what the big banks and ratings agencies refuse to, they have an idea to get rich quick. Based on the true story told by Michael Lewis in his book, The Blind Side, this has become a really terrible film. Rich, white men obsess around words & numbers & unfathomable Wall St concepts. Presented as a pseudo doco/re-enactment of a greedy deal to profit from the US housing crash of 2005. Non-smart one-liners, Tedious and unconvincing. Lacks action or much tension. Hilariously misconceived and tricked-up for release. Ludicrous and lame scenes are injected into the the Wall St action including a scene in a British pub, the bimbo in the bubble bath explaining sub-prime future convertibles to us then telling us to "Fuck off". There are other speeches to camera, subtitles so we know who the characters are & what is going onViewers may be tempted to think they're on the side of the little guy/beating up on a bank just by watching it, but it's a pathetic, cluttered, scrambled homage to wannabe smart guys messing with money. It depicts a system, society and individuals who are so sick that it would incite terrorists to attack them. Unlike The Emperor's New Clothes by &#x85; The Big Short pulls its punches re: banks, government.) It's wearisome, impenetrable, foul-mouthed and awkward with its statements direct to camera or 'fourth-wall-breaking gimmickry'. Voiceovers, pieces to camera. The only women are a pole dancer and a blonde bimbo in bath (to show how simple it is to understand). A blokey bloke film without a conscience.Its four Golden Globe nominations include Steve Carell for Best Actor (ok, he does does a reasonable job with the crap script from Adam McKay and Charles Randolph who are nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay, which shows just how bankrupt mainstream US culture is. The resolution is depressing, defeatist and morally disturbing. This would be Ryan Gosling and Brad Pitt's worst roles.The Big Short is a fraud, absolute rubbish, and way long with it. "},{"Title":"A MUST see movie, especially for those who lived it.","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If it wasn't so true and had I not experienced first hand, I'd say it was a brilliantly thought up story akin to Oceans 11-13 or "The Sting" (back in the 70's). Unfortunately, it's a true story and my business was wiped about because of it (residential architect).Greed and fraud. That's how the house of cards came tumbling down. If you aren't up on finance/wall street, go anyway...you'll get the jist of what happened. Great for discussion afterwards with anyone closely related to the story. We ALL have and are still suffering from this majestic meltdown of character which resulted in what I think is worse than the great depression (we still have years until recovery puts this in the rear view mirror)...Only thing I felt should have been more of a focus on was the story of Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve. He started this whole mess. Once wall street saw the Fed's would back anything and print "funny money" - game on. Greed took over and fraud, it's kissing cousin, followed suit. If Obama would have stepped in (his first year in office) and let BofA FAIL and then restructure/breakup the big banks - this whole debacle would have been a shorter recovery with new rules in place. Instead, what did he do?? Bail out the auto industry.I only hope more American's see this movie and DEMAND more criminal charges for those that were at the top. Unfortunately that won't happen. I lost everything during this mess and it will take years more to recover (and I was one of the "good guys")...I feel everyone's pain watching this movie and re-living it. A MUST see... "},{"Title":"Insultingly condescending","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Insultingly condescending.It's like finance 101 for preschoolers&#x85;full of cut aways where some random celebrity holds your hand and spoon feeds you very basic finance concepts like you're an idiot. The writers seem to think the audience is COMPLETELY financially ignorant and uneducated and as a result they spend most of the film repeating the same simple concepts. Why they assume everyone watching is an idiot is beyond me and the whole concept of the film is insulting to anyone with even a cursory knowledge of finance. Really pointless film. "},{"Title":"One of the best experiences while watching it for the second time(MILD SPOILERS)","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I watched I was confused even with interesting cameos to explain stuff.Then slowly I was interested.The second time I watched I really go into it.I mean wow.Christian bale kills it with in the 10 minutes time given to him.The first encounter he has with a newbie you right away understand this guy is socially awkward and genius.I cannot imagine anyone else playing this role.I mean wow.Others are fine like you know Brad Pitt is paranoid.Gosling has funny lines which is mostly script. Carrell gives this nuanced performance.But bale gave this weird and awesome performance.I recommend watching twice and trust me second time you will enjoy a lot as you will understand very well. "},{"Title":"Eh! Mildly entertaining when it's not annoying","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short tells one story too many and feels jumpy and haphazard &#x96;especially since the characters in each storyline never intersect. It's really three movies in one &#x96;and would have been better served by being two stories well told.With a frenetic "turn five cameras on and let the actors improv" style, the film's hyperactive chattiness completely strips the emotion from every scene. It's all pretty headache inducing to be honest.The film also has 10 minutes of unnecessary exposition done with a "wink wink" style that makes you not even pay attention to what's being said. For a second it feels clever until you realize that the content really is superfluous, interrupts the narrative, and pulls you out of the film.For me, the Big Short's final nail is the overly-preachy ending where the film revels in its own self-importance.The performances are GREAT, however, with Steve Carell destined for an Oscar nom. Ryan Gosling shows some real talent. Wait for Redbox on this one. "},{"Title":"Noble effort comes up a bit, well, short","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short (TBS) is a moderately below-average film that stumbles in a couple basic areas. I found myself in the metaphorical shoes of stock analyst Michael Baum (Steve Carrell) who cannot believe he is watching a slow-motion train wreck no one else either understands or cares a whit about.I'm unsure many early glowing reviewers actually watched the film. One giveaway: TBS is saturated with irony mustier than an underground cavern, yet few deemed it worthy of comment. From the one-eyed hedge fund manager Michael Burry (Christian Bale) who sees what others cannot, to the compromised ratings agency woman whose vision is (literally) impaired, it's nearly endless. The alligator lurking in the backyard pool at the abandoned Florida development? Wait, is that a metaphor?There's meta-irony mixed in with their praise: TBS is largely about people who willfully overrated mortgage bonds and thereby misled others for personal gain. I wonder if some purposely overrated TBS for analogous reasons.Full disclosure: I've worked on Wall Street for 25 years, both as a humble accountant and an opinionated research analyst. I've seen virtually all major Wall-Street-related films of the past 25-30 years, most more than once. Like the old joke about "Caddyshack" and its sequel, "Wall Street" far and away is the best of the genre, and "Wall Street II" the worst. I admire Michael Lewis, and I read TBS at least twice.The director's main conceit, that people can't enjoy a movie about a financial scandal without regular distractions including naked lovelies taking bubble baths, celebrity chefs, and comely actresses playing themselves in cameos, was a BIG disappointment. Underestimating the audience downgraded the similarly stylish and well-cast "Margin Call," in my view, terminally afraid to explain exactly why the fictional bank was going belly-up.Examples abound where a film both informs about the world of finance and entertains without annoying asides and sophomoric time-outs: "Wall Street" let us in on the world of mergers and acquisitions, risk arbitrage, and insider trading, "Boiler Room" limned the high-pressure sales tactics of unscrupulous brokers who operate in, well, boiler rooms. "Wolf of Wall Street" channeled "Boiler Room", "Goodfellas", and a sand grain of "Wall Street" to illuminate the dangers of charismatic pied pipers pitching penny stocks to suckers. Plus it made much better use of Margot Robbie (Margot Robbie).Instead of drowning the audience in complex terminology like Credit Derivative Obligations (CDOs) and Credit Default Swaps (CDSs), why not just stick with "mortgage bonds" (MBs) and "put options?" TBS cries out for the technique Rob Lowe suggests in "Thank you for Smoking": just add a line of dialogue to quickly explain what a soon-to-be-forgotten financial product is used for. Then move on.Movies like "Wall Street" and books like "The Great Crash 1929" place financial bubbles squarely in the context of human nature: People will rampantly speculate on the value of stocks and/or real estate, their values will eventually inflate, and then ultimately the bubble will pop. Stocks. Real estate. Inflate. Pop. Rinse and repeat. I suppose TBS is about bonds and real estate. Whatever, it's not that new.Roughly 90% of every financial crisis boils down to one thing: Money is borrowed that won't be repaid. 1929 crash. 1980s S&L crisis. 2007 sub-prime mortgages. Follow the borrower. The other 10% is the colorful detail movies are made of. In 2016, it'll be shale petroleum-based loans and junk bonds that blow up. Yawn.The cast is first-rate and production values uniformly high. Ryan Gosling was very good as Jared Vennett, the unicorn who both works for an I-bank yet comprehends the inherently unsustainable underpinnings of the MBs they create. His Jenga scene explaining how MBs are constructed was my favorite.Some scenes utterly lack accuracy. Burry visits Goldman Sachs to ask them to craft a brand-new, never-before-devised contract to make a huge bet against the US housing market. Two spiffy junior bankers across the table (whom I'll nickname Muffy and Sanjay) quickly agree to write the unique contract then and there.Umm, no way, Sanjay. Brand new derivatives with novel risks that require bank capital to be set aside might take several weeks to put together. Muffy and Sanjay need to successfully navigate at least a couple of Risk Committee approval processes, plus invest serious time with internal lawyers and an external regulatory agency for good measure. Ouch.Other times I confess no clue what the film wants to convey. The scene with two young Coloradans (TYCs) in the lobby of JP Morgan Chase is one example. If I understand, the TYCs first get summarily rejected, then stumble upon a pitch book left on a lobby bench (?) that outlines the entire short-the-sub-prime-market thesis. Then one TYC looks directly into the camera and informs us this scene never actually happened; they simply cadged the impending sub-prime crisis idea from a friend. Huh? I'm confused. You either take artistic license or you don't, but not both. There went the "Best Editing" Oscar.Most financial flicks are chock-full of memorable quotes. "Wall Street" alone could fill a small Kindle ("Greed is good", "Lock and load," "Blue Horseshoe loves Annacott Steel," "So the falcon has heard the falconer?" "American Express has got a hit-man looking for me," "The illusion has become real," "Because it's wreckable"). "Boiler Room" actually includes a worshipful paean to "Wall Street"'s quotability. There's nothing similarly memorable in TBS. In a screenplay cut from prime Michael Lewis-woven cloth, this in itself constitutes a financial-bubble-sized scandal.Final irony: By placing full blame upon the banks, the filmmakers actually may delude viewers about the risks of history repeating itself and the public's ultimate responsibility for their financial matters. They thereby render a recurrence of this sad chapter in our recent economic history more likely. A second bubble bath scene, with Barney Frank explaining his indispensable role in this whole mess, would be a teaching moment like none other. "},{"Title":"Should have been made as a mockumentary","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Big Short is based on a true story of how investors predicted the financial crisis of 2007, and earned money on betting that it would actually happen. The film is based on a fact book with the same name. The film includes big names such as Brad Pitt, Steve Carrell, Christian Bale and Ryan Gosling. It was nominated for several Oscars including best picture, and it did win for best adapted screenplay. Director Adam McKay has prior to The Big Short, mostly done comedies with Will Ferrell so the step in this direction and the Oscar nominations was definitely unexpected.To be perfectly honest, I didn't care that much for the film. The financial crisis is fascinating and I understood that the film was to be about advanced house mortgages. Also, to make it easier for us the audience, they made Ryan Gosling into some sort of narrator who from time to time face the camera and explains to us what different things means. The biggest problem I had with The Big Short is that after you understood what it's all about, the financial crisis and how they made money on it, there's nothing left to rely on. The characters and their personal development is minimal, except for a couple of clichs by Carrell and Pitt, where they begin to moralize so that we the audience don't feel like everyone in the film is a greedy moron who makes money on other people's suffering. A boring mistake. Look at one of the most famous characters of all time, Michael Douglas' investor in the film Wall Street. He is a greedy moron but he is also a great character.I personally would rather have seen this film as a sort of mockumentary, a documentary with a touch of parody. The Big Short wants to be comical but at the same time to be taken seriously and I don't think this really works. A shorter documentary about the crisis with a comical approach would have been more interesting. We would have gotten rid of all the over the top moral clich scenes. Strange is also that at some point in the film the characters travel to a private owned house and question the tenants about their house mortgage, and later come to the conclusion that they should bet against the entire USA economy. The scene only exist to make the situation more understandable to us but at the same time it just makes the characters look dumb and not believable investors. The Big Short was a good idea and it was interesting until I understood what it was all about. After that it just became predictable and boring. Practically no new information is revealed after about half of the film, and the entire film is over two hours. I grade it a 5.David - Filmografen "}]