[{"Title":"Extremely Disappointing","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"49 out of 72 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" The description on IMDb is "Comedy, Music, Musical" and that is not correct. It would be better titled "Musical With No Real Plot". The plot that is given here is extremely misleading (Bill Murray worries no one will show up to his T.V. show due to a terrible snow-storm in New York City.). This is only how the show starts. It quickly degrades into one song after another with essentially no plot. It is the only movie (show) that I can remember turning off before it was over (I got about 3/4 of the way through). The only enjoyable thing (for me) was the opening song where Bill Murray sings. I was surprised that his voice was that good. After that, it down-slid from a story with songs into just songs (and the Bill Murray songs were nowhere as good as the opening).It has also been described (on other sites) as a tribute/re-do of old time variety shows. It is not even close. I'm old and have seen them all (from the 1950's and on). This isn't even close.I am a Bill Murray admirer (short of a fan). I can't recommend this to anyone unless you want to hear Bill Murray sing (which is why I gave it a 3 of 10. "},{"Title":"A Waste of Talent","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This is painfully bad and boring. I'm a big Bill Murray fan and will remain so only by not ever watching this again.It's basically a number of musical performances with a thin plot. I assume some were purposefully bad to be funny. Nothing was very funny. I will say that a few of the performances are okay (sparing a 1 for a review) but mostly it just feels awkward without any real Christmas feeling or humor.I suspect they had a lot of fun making this. I just wished they had kept it as a home movie to show their friends and not their fans.With all those stars, what a shame. "},{"Title":"If you're expecting any sort of story, or comedy for that matter, "A Very Murray Christmas" is not for you.","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I am not giving this movie a one, because while I found it terrible, it's not the worst thing EVER. This film is simply a bewildering waste of your time. It's not funny, and it lacks any sort of narrative. It boasts several cameos from actors in the comedy field, but the film is essentially just Bill Murray dreaming of singing carols with them.Murray stands in what I initially believed to be his apartment, and sings a song for two minutes, is greeted by Amy Poehler, who wants him to film a Christmas special, which he begrudgingly does, and sings another song with Chris Rock. He then loses power, no longer has to do the show, and is snowed in. He subsequently sings 15 more carols, passes out drunk, meets George Clooney and Miley Cyrus, and for 15 minutes, I sh*t you not, sings Christmas carols uninterrupted. He then wakes up in his apartment, sings "We Wish You A Merry Christmas", and left me in shock as the credits rolled. My middle finger slowly extended.By the time I was finished, I was just left confused. Confused as to who wanted this, and why. I swear, it borders on being an opera. Knowing this, I'll allow YOU to decide whether or not this is your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Not At All What I Was Expecting","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Bill Murray worries no one will show up to his T.V. show due to a terrible snow-storm in New York City.I may be rating this special a little low. It is hard to say, because I did not know going in to it what this would be, and I was somewhat disappointed that it was not funnier or more silly. It basically amounts to a series of special guests singing Christmas songs. Which is nice, but really nothing all too different from any other special, and seems like a waste of Murray's talent.One thing I found the most confusing was that some people were themselves (Murray, Chris Rock, George Clooney) while others (Jason Schwartzman, Amy Poehler, Rashida Jones) were not. Why not just have everyone be themselves? "},{"Title":"Enjoy it for what it is...","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Anyone looking at a Christmas special written by/for Bill Murray and expecting a plot and story line is either too young or too dumb to just enjoy it. It is Bill at his best. Calm, collected and one hell of a showman. It's dark and bright in the best of ways. Great sound quality, good people being people. The progression of the movie was very well done. I was content with it initially; but as it went on I loved it more and more. I watched the musical scenes twice (Silent Night maybe more) in one sitting.In 10 years everyone will be calling this a Christmas must watch. If you know Bill Murray and enjoy him, you can't lose. "},{"Title":"Another disappointed Bill Murray fan","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Several of Bill Murray's films are at the top of my movie list. This one, not so much. It was really disappointing as a fan. I agree with several other reviewers that Bill Murray's talent was underutilized. I expected it to have a bit more of a plot and a bit more of his usual quick wit humor. It's not so much a movie with a plot as it is a celebrity karaoke night with Bill Murray as a host and also a bit of a therapist to some of the characters in the bar. I feel like they phoned a few celebrity friends, got together for a slumber party in a warehouse, sang songs and filmed it, used the first takes on all of the scenes and hurriedly put it together to get it on Netflix in time. Some songs were decent enough, but others were a disaster. Possibly on purpose, but didn't cut it humor wise. If you are someone who enjoys celebrity cameos, perhaps you'll enjoy this. It just wasn't funny for us to watch a bunch of celebrities we know are not singers fail (miserably) at singing and a bunch of celebrities we already know are decent singers be decent or mediocre at singing.If you're going to watch this, be prepared with something else in front of you to do while it's on, like wrapping Christmas presents, so you don't have to feel like it was a total waste of your time. "},{"Title":"Saccharine-Free Holiday TV","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" In the USA, where Consumerism is the true national religion, the mass media represent a cruel myth that life is like a Hallmark greeting card or a Joel Osteen fantasy, which inevitably leads most of us to feel something like Charlie Brown or George Bailey.Paradoxically, the Charlie Browns and George Baileys of the world might like to spend an hour sitting on the sofa, listening to Xmas music, imagining a warm fireplace and snow outside the window, maybe tossing back a couple drinks or taking a little toke. Perhaps to indulge in a little nostalgia, or perhaps to pause and be grateful for food in the belly, a warm place to stay, and whatever friends or companions one actually has in this complex and difficult world.Before the merchants and the religious fanatics seized upon it, the Winter Soltice was the pagan season of Yule, a time of song, feasting, alcohol and socializing. (Look it up if you don't believe me!) This is a show of song, and of actors pretending to eat, drink and performing lightly comedic dialogue so as to simulate socializing. Additionally, this show takes pains to acknowledge the fact that real life is nothing like the saccharine shopping-mall mega-church fantasies which propel most Xmas season programming.The banter and music are mostly amusing, sometimes even quite good, and there is even a hint of genuine sentiment at one point, but thankfully not overdone.Sometimes you want a TV show that is not heavy or demanding, a kind of electronic fireplace to keep you (and hopefully a companion) company for the better part of an hour, and sometimes you need a little help getting through the holiday season. Some people find the videotronic images of Bill Murray and Paul Shaffer to be an amiable presence. If you are such a person and have a nominal appreciation for irony, this is a good show to watch. "},{"Title":"For my viewing pleasure, a big miss.","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I like Bill Murray and like most of his roles. "Groundhog Day" and "Lost In Translation" are two of my favorites. But I find Sophia Coppola more hit-N-miss, I don't like most of her stuff.This one is a Netflix special, just less than one hour long. It is in New York and there is a bad snowstorm that virtually closed down NYC as Murray (playing himself) is about to host a Christmas Special. He has a number of guests all playing themselves. Maybe it is a spoof of the old variety shows that actors and singers like Bing Crosby and Nat King Cole used to have. But for me it was mostly tedious, it never grabbed my interest.And as much as I like Bill Murray the actor, he is a very mediocre singer and I really did NOT enjoy hearing him sing Christmas songs. Oh well, a good experiment, to me a failed one. "},{"Title":"The latest in the ongoing line of pointless vanity projects making us laugh because we recognize actors","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" In September 2015, HBO gave us the special Ferrell Takes the Field, an hour-long documentary following actor/comedian Will Ferrell joining ten different MLB teams in one day for a game of preseason baseball. The purpose of the event was to raise money for Ferrell's friend's charity that helped give terminally ill kids an opportunity at college education, but instead of making a meaningful contribution that would go unnoticed like many would, Ferrell had to embellish it and make it all about him. This, in turn, led to a purposeless publicity stunt and a film that screamed nothing but vanity and ego for Ferrell himself.With that, just in time for the holidays, Bill Murray, enough universally loved and respected actor, has decided to hop aboard the train of mindless projects that assume we, the audience, is just going to bust a gut throughout because the titular actor is the lead in the film. Sofia Coppola's A Very Murray Christmas is pointless Christmas special, never quite making the stride towards self-referential humor but never acting like a straight-forward comedy either. As a result, we get fifty-six minutes of Christmas carols from recognizable faces punctuated by a sulking and brooding Murray and banter between him and other celebrities.The film revolves around a lonely Bill Murray, who has lost his holiday spirit after a vicious blizzard in New York City prevents guests like Pope Francis and Brad Pitt from showing up to his one-man-show "A Very Murray Christmas," where he was set to perform various Christmas songs. The venue he was scheduled to play at, New York's famous Carlyle Hotel, is nothing but an empty auditorium, and Murray's crushed sentiments can't even be curbed by the encouragement of a perky Amy Poehler. In the midst of this mess, Murray runs into Chris Rock, who agrees to perform a song with him in the meantime, and over the course of the day, Murray helps liven up a couple's (Jason Schwartzman and Rashida Jones) postponed wedding and finds the gall to sing alongside George Clooney and Miley Cyrus.The end result shouldn't be as cheerless as it is. To begin with, the Christmas songs move at a snail's pace and are never played for the absurdity of circumstance. It also doesn't help that writers Coppola, Murray, and Mitch Glazer can't find a consistent tone for the project and don't really know how to handle the sardonic and often bleak humor of Bill Murray's character. Secondly, the scenes interjected in between the musical numbers aren't very funny or interesting either. They're more along the lines of nudging the audience at how allegedly funny it is that Clooney, Cyrus, and Murray, at one point, all share the same on-screen space. Most of these scenes are clear that Coppola and company just assumed that the presence of many actors at once would hopefully take over and, in turn, produce comedic results, but time again shows that this notion is just an excuse for lazy/minimal screen writing.Finally, what's the takeaway from this project? By the end of it, the characters don't seem to learn anything they didn't already know, the glacially paced musical numbers have mostly faded from the mind, there's not a single quotable line in the film, and Murray's attitude has made the audience exhale comfortably knowing that this special doesn't even last an hour. A Very Murray Christmas is about as perplexing as it gets, if you try to discern its themes and content in a literal sense, but it's pretty easy to understand the soulless attempt to make the audience laugh solely based on actor recognition as a result of lazy screen writing and conceptual ideas.Starring: Bill Murray, George Clooney, Miley Cyrus, Chris Rock, Amy Poehler, Paul Shaffer, Jason Schwartzman, and Rashida Jones. Directed by: Sofia Coppola. "},{"Title":"If you like Scrooged and Lost in Translation then you will probably like this","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" So this has the same star and it was co-written by one of the writers of Scrooged. (Murray and Coppala co-wrote this with Mitch Glazer who co-wrote Scrooged with Michael O'Donoghue) It is directed by Sophia Copala who directed Lost In Translation. So if you want a slightly dark holiday special with irony that stars Bill Murray and includes a fair amount of singing and pop up guest stars like TV Christmas specials did in the 60's and 70's then you should like this show. I found it entertaining and so did those who watched it with me. (FYI-We ranged in ages of 57 to 23 years old.) I read all these reviews that this was not what they were expecting. Well people look at who created and star in the product to get an idea of what to expect. "}][{"Title":"Terrible...Just Terrible","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Show has no social or artistic redeeming virtues. How Sofia convinces the backers to actually put up cash to finance such a pointless, silly, egocentric hour of supposed entertainment is a total mystery! The only surprising aspect is that Bill Murray is a fairly good singer. Otherwise, the show should be an embarrassment to the other participants...particularly George Clooney. Except for Miley Cyrus who was scripted to sing a song without any story background, the other contrived musical situations were ridiculously contrived situations about which one cringed, hoping they would end quickly. Hopefully, this will not become an annual event...once was one time too many already!!! "},{"Title":"Intimate, Boozy, Grown Up Christmas Special","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Frank Cross grew up to be sad Bill Murray singing carols. Sophia Coppolla, though an overall uneven film maker, knows how to set tone and mood and she's especially adept at creating lots of runway for Bill Murray's singular blend of melancholy, humanity, and bemused humor. Lots of little homages here to Scrooged with the ghost of Christmas Past showing up and a writing credit from Scrooged writer Brian Glazer -- I feel like it's almost a sequel. Also, music selections are fantastic, and the undisciplined singing is intentional, of course, to lend an air of intimacy that happens when people get too much to drink on a Christmas Eve. Honestly wouldn't be mad if this was my Christmas Eve. "},{"Title":"A load of pretentious baubles.......","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Murray stars in his own nod and wink at the camera Christmas special, where he is hosting a holiday special surrounded by some of the most famous faces in the game.Trouble is that there is a storm in town, and it's caused all and sundry who have been invited not to turn up, so Murray almost has to do the show in front of empty chairs.......and then the power goes off........I don't know what I was expecting from this weird, experimental film from Coppola, but I wanted Murray back to his sarcastic best, Frank Cross mixed with a bit of Venkman, playing against type for once and be a whiny little diva that many depict him to be (but the majority say he's the nicest guy in the world, so it would have been a wonderful play on words).And for the first ten or so minutes, it's promising, Murray is stressing at everything, Poehler is the false prophet, promising everything will be okay, and Cera plays in some respects Murrays conscious, and then Rock comes in and joins Murray in a Tony Ferrino type sing- a-long.And then the lights go out.And this is where the film loses its way. The rest consists of Murray in a bar singing with either his friends or the directors friends, with a little help from the band Phoenix. There are connotations in the film as to if they are all dead and in purgatory, with Murray finally being blessed with his perfect show in heaven, or whether it's just a weather polluted nightmare the day before the actual show.Either way, it's beyond smug, and I fell sorry for Murray, the man is a legend, but Coppola isn't. In my opinion she's only made one decent film, and that starred Murray,mother rest are like this. Pretentious and celebrated because people are scared that they might be classed as uneducated if they don't 'get' them.Fear not, the hipsters who will say that this is the best Christmas special/movie of all time, will run home after and watch Surviving Christmas.It's tepid stuff, but what grates the most is that if it kept up with the snappy humour of the first ten minutes, it could have been wonderful.It's not. "},{"Title":"Don't Listen to the Bad!","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Was concerned after reading all the bad reviews on here! So glad they are all taking crap! All I can say is this is Bill Murray and is excellent if you appreciate him and good music. If you are just expecting Peter Venkman or Phil Connors you will be disappointed.So don't build it up as the main event for a Christmas evening, more like get yourself a couple of scotches, and save yourself an hour to indulge in some feel good seasonal songs in a very Murray style.When Bill starts to give a f$%! , that's when the world will have problems.Merry Christmas Bill ! "},{"Title":"Made Me Laugh","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" A BIG thank you to Bill Murray, Chris Rock, George Clooney, Miley Cyrus, et al. for making me laugh (and cry...Miley Cyrus's rendition of Silent Night brought tears to my eyes.) when I needed it most. Bravo to those who bravely took the mike while they obviously cannot carry a tune,(eh Chris and George?) Have been watching Bill Murray since his debut on SNL. And who would ever guessed that Clooney would be where he is today after watching him on Roseann?! Despite the negative reviews here, this little gem created some much needed Christmas cheer. I hope to see another Murray Christmas next year! And for all of you who were disappointed...bah humbug! "},{"Title":"Typical Bill Murray style","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I love the parody. A musical parody at that. I enjoy how they incorporate the songs into the "story." Mr. Murry has a great voice--too bad we don't hear more of his singing voice. Funny though that this is supposed to be a hotel and there aren't any guests. Especially since there is supposed a snow storm outside. Of course Paul Shaffer does a wonderful job at the piano. Then the band members of Phoenix playing as chefs end up playing with Mr. Shaffer. Maya Rudolph is wonderful of course. Eventually Bill seems to have had too much to drink and passes out. The next thing you know he's dreaming of the Christmas Special he was supposed to have been televising with Mr. Shaffer, Miss. Cyrus, and Mr. Clooney. I must say, it was refreshing to see Miss. Cyrus not behave obnoxiously. I am reminded of the Dean Martin's shows. It's too bad this is just on Netflix. It could become a new classic Christmas show. The show ends with him being awakened by his friend Mr. Shaffer and his butler on Christmas morning with the last scene of Miss Rudolph sitting alone in the bar. Which leaves one to wonder. Yet this is Mr. Murray's style... "},{"Title":"If you tell anyone, they'll never believe you..that this sucks.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" It is completely shocking....really, at how bad this is. I forked money out sight unseen and rarely do I do that, but with Murray how could I go wrong? I guess Murray can't go undefeated forever and the whole cast stumbles through this while Murray tries to keep a horrific script alive. The hardest part was the painful ineptitude of the deliveries of the whole cast, I get the feeling that this may have been a solely extemporaneous performance. If it wasn't it was more forced than shotgun wedding. The best gift you can give yourself this Christmas is anything but this movie. I really don't want to spend any more time writing a review for a movie I was mugged out of 20 bucks for, but I MDB felt that 5 lines to say that a form of entertainment sucks it hard is not enough, so let me add this....I would rather be shaved with a rusty broken razor, rubbed with salt and then dipped in a vat of Iodine than watch this film again. "},{"Title":"The word awful does not do it justice","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This effort is so bad and that is even before you take into account all of the flat out of tune singingThis truly terrible beyond words.All i remember about the film before i eventually just turned it off is... having no plot whatsoever just one really bad singer after another . with the only exception of maybe Miley Cyrus who was actually not bad. I have no clue wither people were acting or being themselves or a bit of both. It was truly a film to slash your wrists watching .I have never used any account to openly criticize a film before but this was so bad i felt the needed to warn people so they would not waste time out of their lives which they wont ever get back . "},{"Title":"Well, I really liked it!","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Saw some horrible reviews for this little curiosity and decided to give it a go, and was delightfully surprised by how well it works. It's a really nice low-key, off-beat little Christmas special. I loved watching it, and wished I'd done so at a more seasonal time.I'm guessing the low scores are mostly from people who were expecting a tightly-scripted laugh-a-minute Bill Murray vehicle, but that's not what this is at all. As you'd expect from Sofia Coppola, it's a sort of mash-up of Lost In Translation and a Bing Crosby special from the 1970s, keeping the nice songs but replacing the saccharin with something sadder and more soulful.It's not going to be for everyone, and clearly isn't ever going to be a mainstream hit, but if you've ever had to spend a Christmas far away from friends or family then this might be the film for you. "},{"Title":"So much potential completely undermined into a generic ho-hum Christmas special","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I think A Very Murray Christmas could have been spectacular period. I mean he managed to get together some very big stars, have a fun silly little plot, sing some songs, have a throwback to old variety shows and there were some good performances and some fun moments but if this had been me I would have made it longer, more skits and more comedy and more Murray in general. I feel like someone wrote this and said "Hey Bill come and do this for an hour" and he did instead of giving it real thought and care and concern. It just isn't the type of thing I would watch every year. There are so many celebrities and they are underused and too quickly passed over. Bill Murray has such avid fans that he could have made this memorable and it's just very rushed. Still being so short and simple and fun, you can't really "dislike it" either. He interacts with lots of different stars, sings some songs, has some fun and it's lovable because of that. I just think the idea behind it could have been a ten and instead its run of the mill and okay at best.You'll see a ton of SNL alum (mostly modern not from Murray's own time on there) and one of my bizarrely favourite numbers is involving Bill Murray and Miley Cyrus following a George Clooney gag. I also find it extremely odd that Sofia Coppola directed and co-wrote this and while Bill Murray also supposedly co-wrote this I think they either didn't have a lot of time to do it or a lot was cut (which I doubt because it seems Netflix gives a lot of creative green lights) The point is that it is fun. If you don't go in with the expectations that the idea gives you as Murray fans and just look for something simple then you will enjoy it a lot more. 7/10 "}][{"Title":"Cringe worthy but we will always love Bill Murray","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" The trailers were promising, perhaps they should have just marketed the trailer as a short and that would have being that. Hell Bill might have picked up a Grammy or two. Now don't get me wrong I love Bill he's my man ,Hyde Park on the Hudson, Stripes need I say more. I did not fast forward I did not waiver, but I did cringe, I did think of falling or more like jumping off the wagon just to see if I could adjust my perspective . Ms Coppola attempt or lack of it at creating a Christmas classic failed in every aspect. You can read my fellow reviewers comments above and below as I am guessing with time this movie will not mature and grow on you.Unless you a captive of North Korea's penal system, where mandatory viewing of badly made movies is recommended as treatment for dissenting individuals and family's alike. I finials succumbed to the save me from this pile of reindeer poop button on my remote when Ms Coppola took the untouchable classic "Fairytale of New York" originally sung by the Pogues and Kirsty MacColl. And demolished an otherwise undemolishable song, It can be sung anywhere any time by anyone, but Murray and his crew were so bad so awful, I cried the cry no man should cry. God save us from this classic and pray kim il jong's media Dept buys the rights and buries it for all time in some cold and lonely work camp in North Korea. We still love yea Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"biggest pile of self indulgent crap ever","Date":"12 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Omg..where to start?, this is quite possibly the worst thing i have ever watched, well i say watched..i gave up after 15 minutes, its bill Murray and a mix of known celebs and unknowns singing friggin Xmas carols... if its meant to be funny i think that got lost in translation (that bad pun was funnier then that steaming turd ) .. anybody that thought this was good in any way shape or form need help, can only assume they are all over 90 and live in houses made up of bing Crosby rubbish ... thankfully i never paid for this yet i still feel robbed, I've lost 15 minutes of my life and its 15 that id have sooner spent in the company of isis and being tortured throughout ...my only questionnis this..why bill why??? Ps Sofia..I'm guessing your adopted as it seems you don't have even one iota of your stepfather "},{"Title":"Why?!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Pretentious, boring, unfunny insult for everyone who loves music, Bill Murray's great acting creations, and most of all, Christmas special atmosphere and all good what comes with this time. So question is: why is Bill Murray doing this? Is this a quick buck action? Or is this more like a: I am a Bill Murray so, whatever I do, even if it is not funny, even if I can't properly sing one note, even if the whole plot has 0 substance and I have perfect knowledge about that, it is good enough, because it's me, Bill Murray? I got information for Mr Murray: don't do it again man! It can be danger for your health, not to mention other things like a loosing whole credibility. There are other interesting things worth of few words, e.g. Miley Cyrus as an Icon of almost Marian virginity singing Silent Night wearing playboy bunny Christmas costume, but let's just forget it. That was dedicated to those who like Christmas backwards and was even more emphasizing main question of whole undertaking: why Bill? Why?! "},{"Title":"Peculiar","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" News reports touting an upcoming Bill Murray Christmas special warrant attention. He's such an oddball that I honestly had no idea what I'd be in for, but knew I had to see it.I like the idea of this; it's all very random and feels like one big gag. But it's also very sleepy. It was funnier when Murray was freaking out during the opening, but once he settled into crooning mode, it became very subdued. After that, you can boil it down to the high point (Clooney popping out of a Christmas tree, singing, "Santa Claus wants some lovin'") to the low (ugh, Miley Cyrus).5/10 "},{"Title":"A so-so modern spin on the old festive variety show","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" The Christmas variety show, or festive special, is a type of show where famous people put on bad Christmas sweaters and get together in a studio made to look like a big log cabin. I assume they shoot it in June or July, and they film 'natural' moments hanging out enjoying the festive spirit and perhaps sharing a song while sipping on fake film brandy. I am not a fan of such shows as they mostly cannot avoid the sense of being forced and awkward. So perhaps it is deliberate that this modern version of these shows has the same qualities.In this spin we join Bill Murray as he does a live Christmas Eve show which nobody turns up to due to a blizzard in New York. With the show cancelled quite quickly, Murray finds himself in the hotel bar, where he chats to those there and sings Christmas songs. I have read criticism that this is not funny enough, which is odd because these specials are rarely thigh-slapping affairs, and nor is this one. In a way I am fine with that, because the deliberately awkward chats are part of the construction rather than a failure of the guests to have chemistry, however yes I must concede that a lot of it doesn't really spark or be as entertaining as it could have been.The guests (playing themselves or others) are mostly reasonably well used and get into the spirit of it (although Clooney is wasted). Murray himself is not too bad, even if he is playing the caricature of himself that people seem to adore. There is a slight feeling of 'all famous mates getting together, slapping each other's backs, while the viewer pays", and the special doesn't do enough to avoid that feeling, even if mostly the cast do add a lot to the events. The songs are reasonably good throughout, and as festive background the scattering of musical numbers and chatting set-ups is well done. It looks good and is well polished, even if for me it was only an average viewing experience. I did like that it captured the spirit of the variety show, but in this way I guess it should not be a surprise that I didn't really love this since I am not a fan of the genre. It is a fun addition to the genre, which plays well with its modern spin, but this adherence to the structure and style did mean that it didn't work for me personally, and may be too wry and knowing for those audiences that actually do like this type of show. "},{"Title":"Very bad","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This show is a real stinker. I wonder what Murray had to do to get Cloony, who looks like he might ought to give up drinking. Chris Rock has so little talent, and the desperation is in casting Cyrus. What a Yuuuuuge skank. We watched 20 minutes, so bad, we could not waste anymore time. The music is lame, the talent is non existent. This will never be anywhere near a classic. I can 't even think of anymore insults to direct at this POS. I have to write 10 lines. It stinks. Really. It is soooooo bad. It is an insult to Christmas. Cyrus sitting on a piano in a whore outfit singing Silent Night. We just could not watch. "},{"Title":"Lost in tranSleightion","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" There's a legend of a jogger in Central Park who stopped to catch his breath, only to have a stranger creep up behind him and cover his eyes with their hands. The startled jogger turns around, and, to his surprise, sees Bill Murray to be the culprit. Murray shrugs, remarks "no one will ever believe you," and strolls off. It's a great story - uncorroborated, of course - and fits perfectly into the mystique of Hollywood's most beloved melancholy clown. And if the objective of Sophia Coppola, reuniting with her Lost in Translation star, was to encapsulate the feel of that anecdote in A Very Murray Christmas (a title that sounds like it was stolen off a t-shirt) - charming, but left in a bemused, fuzzy "did that just happen?" daze - it's a feat she accomplishes with (jingle) bells on. 'Pleasant' is the first adjective that comes to mind in describing the film, but it's swiftly followed by 'odd' and 'non-narrative'. For every enthusiastic fan prone to extolling hyperbole like "I would literally just watch Bill Murray's face for an hour," Coppola appears determined to take you at your word, with this cheerfully ramshackle vision of sugarplums loosely structured around Murray's Christmas variety show being unattended and cancelled due to a raging snowstorm. At least one part of the film is a dream sequence - I'm still skeptical that more isn't - but mostly an excuse for Murray to croon Christmas carols and banter with his celebrity guest stars who flit in and out - a cute, albeit somewhat dusty premise. As with much 'Hollywood does Hollywood' schtick, the disjuncture between celebrities playing themselves (Chris Rock, Miley Cyrus, and, yes, Clooney) and celebrities playing characters (Amy Poehler, Michael Cera, Rashida Jones and Jason Schwartzman) can be a bit rocky, but Coppola largely skirts the fourth wall with cheeky grace, landing a choice Monuments Men gag amongst others (which is already probably more laughs than the film itself yielded). What the film lacks is much of a payoff or sense of purpose, which can make Coppola's trademark dreamy, leisurely pacing really start to grate as the festive sparkle wears off. There's a woven in subplot involving Murray reuniting Jones and Schwartzman's feuding couple after their wedding is postponed, but the strength of the actors' performances (particularly Jones) makes the 'sing your love to one another' sit uneasily, even amidst the kitschy, meta variety show aesthetic presiding over the film as a whole. As our host, Murray, playing the Bill Murray of Zombieland, birthday party crashing lore, is charm and class personified, compensating for the lack of plot with sheer charisma, but even he looks desperate for more to do, making it hard to avoid the feel of a wasted opportunity. The celebrity cameos are fun (Clooney in particular, who looks like he was paid for the gig in champagne, appears to relish the rank weirdness of his bit), but it all wears thin so soon that it's akin to the hangover hitting before you've left the party. Coppola's Christmas Carol is as insubstantial as a Christmas cookie, but a largely cheerful evening for all who have ever wanted to spend their Christmas doing karaoke with Bill Murray (and let's face it - who wouldn't?). But, like all good Murray stories, it fades from consciousness almost immediately, unlikely to ever be revisited, but leaving a pleasantly confusing after glow. Is it likely to worm its way into the pantheon of annual holiday viewing? Nah. Give Scrooged another go instead. Ho-ho-ho-hum. -6/10 "},{"Title":"Left without Christmas Spirit or Feelings...","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" My personal rating of a Christmas movie is if I feel more excited, and good about Christmas. I want to feel the Christmas spirit more at the end of a Christmas movie then at the beginning. I thought there was going to be some hope to this at the beginning of A Very Murray Christmas. The first ten minutes I thought was going to be a setup to the eventual release of Christmas Spirit later. I was surprised at Bill Murray's voice in the first song, but later songs seemed to be just a way to have him sing more and the quality of his singing got worse and worse. It was almost like they said, he sang good on the first song, we don't have to worry about any of the others. However, the more I watched, the sadder I got. The more I listened, the less I wanted to. By the end of the movie all remnants of Christmas Spirit had faded away in a smog of sadness. This will never be seen in my house again. "},{"Title":"Meandering Christmas special","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" It is the Bill Murray Christmas variety special. That's pretty much what it is. Bill Murray gets some celebrity guests and they sing Christmas songs and some other songs. Oh and it's directed by Sofia Coppola. That's basically it. However, I'm sure a variety special like this shouldn't be this lacking in cheer or laughs.Good: It has good production and it looks great. Adding the lovely Rashida Jones (her duet with Schwartzman covering Todd Rundgren's I Saw the Light being the highlight) and Maya Rudolph is great. Paul Shaffer is a delight. Miley Cyrus actually kept it at a normal level which I appreciated.Bad: The special wasn't that special. It lacked Christmas cheer even though they were actively trying to avoid any cheese. However, being melancholic doesn't always work and it just kind of meanders around while Bill Murray attempts to sing. It also failed at getting any laughs.Overall, it was pointless. It seemed like Murray wanted to make a Christmas variety show with some semblance of a plot, but it lacked any real energy or charm to make it work despite the big cast. "},{"Title":"It is a special that likely is just going to be forgotten in Murray filmography years down the road.","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" It always has been a respectable digital platform for films but this year Netflix went up another level. With them putting out respectable TV shows on their platform like Daredevil or good comedy specials from people like Chris Tucker or Aziz Ansari, they are an entertainment platform here to stay. Even more so, it's impressive how they stuck a big named actor like Adam Sandler to sign a four film deal with them. Let's also not forgot the film A Very Murray Christmas Netflix made with Bill Murray that came out earlier in the month to celebrate Christmas. Due to a massive snowstorm during Christmas time in New York City, Bill Murray worries that nobody will shows up to his TV show. Even with everything going on outside, guests and celebrities still find time to join Bill Murray to celebrate Christmas and to find a real meaning to the holiday. With really no plot here and only running fifth-six minutes long, don't expect a lot and this drags a lot also. It's a holiday special that depends on how much you like Bill Murray. He is much the same in A Very Murray Christmas as he is throughout the year. He is loud, obnoxious, and of course drinking is a must. His cast includes people like Chris Rock, Amy Poehler, George Clooney and others. Expect a lot of fun singing even by Murray himself and the best singing comes from really a surprising guest. With the type of talent here and with the excellent director in Sofia Coppola, I would rather have wanted this to be a full-length film with actual real characters. In a way though, that is asking a lot. A Very Murray Christmas is at least a respectable holiday special even if it's a bit of a disappointment. It is a special that likely is just going to be forgotten in Murray filmography years down the road. "}][{"Title":"Murray Christmas,Everyone.","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" With Christmas coming up,I was intrigued to discover that Bill Murray had reunited with Sofia Coppola to do a "holiday special" for Netflix,which led to me getting ready to find out how Murray this Christmas could be.The plot:Getting set to film his X-Mas special in a hotel filled with celebrity guests,Bill Murray is told that he will have to perform the show on his own and without a live audience,due to the blizzard stopping anyone from getting out. Fearing that no one will see the special,Murray's hopes start to shine when he spots Chris Rock stuck in the weather,and drags him in as a guest.View on the film:Taking place largely in a hotel,co-writer/(along with Mitch Glazer & Bill Murray)director Sofia Coppola gives the trim 56 minute running time a touch of Christmas glamour,by surrounding the hotel in snowy whites which create a strong feeling of being stuck in the hotel.For the screenplay the writers take a satirical view at the fake world of TV Christmas specials,as the hilariously stiff exchanges between Chris Rock & Bill Murray recall the infamous Bing Crosby and David Bowie X-Mas special,whilst a dive into Murray's dreams reveal the diva attitude for an X-Mas special to solely focus on the host.Whilst the special offers some satirical lights,the writers struggle to keep the lively atmosphere of an X-Mas special bubbling away,with the extremely abrupt ending strongly suggesting that the film makers were unable to come up with a grand final that Christmas specials are known for.Joined by a wise-cracking Paul Shaffer and a humble Jason Schwartzman,Bill Murray gives a terrific performance as himself,with Murray showing himself to be bitter and completely lacking in enthusiasm for the holiday season,as Bill wishes everyone a Murray Christmas. "},{"Title":"Rather Pointless and Unfunny","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" A Very Murray Christmas (2015)** (out of 4)This Christmas special was made for Netflix and when you've got a talented director like Sofia Coppola and a talented actor like Bill Murray you expect much better. The story has Murray set to perform a live Christmas show but NYC has been hit by a major snowstorm so he's worried none of the stars will show up. Not only do we get Murray but we also have Paul Shaffer, Michael Cera, David Johansen, Amy Poehler, Chris Rock, Jason Schwartzman, Miley Cyrus and George Clooney.There are many problems with this 56 minute special but the biggest is the fact that it's simply not funny. While watching the film I couldn't help but wonder what they were even trying to do. Show off a great cast? Perhaps because that's really the only thing that the movie accomplishes. Murray is always fun to watch but he really isn't given much to do here outside of singing some songs, which he adds a nice spin on. Clooney shows up towards the end and while it's fun seeing him in something like this he really isn't given too much to do. The scene-stealer is Cyrus who sings three songs but takes the movie with a wonderful version of Silent Night. "},{"Title":"Nice Tunes, but I Expected Much More,","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" A Very Murray Christmas is a very mediocre Christmas special with a poorly developed storyline, despite a star studded cast. It certainly has many great moments that earned this film a five, there are good Christmas numbers, with "Do You Hear What I Hear?" and "Baby, It's Cold Outside" standing out as my favourites, and Bill Murray never fails to delight in anything he does, even if it feels like a bit of a waste of his talent. My main disappointment with this is that I was expecting a story, which there really wasn't, I thought it would be about Bill Murray hosting a Christmas show that will be a definite disaster, which is eventually saved by his celebrity friends, instead the concept of Murray's Christmas special is forgotten about fifteen minutes in and the rest is just them singing Christmas songs. In anything where celebrities are playing themselves, you expect a lot of jokes to be made about them throughout, such as in This is the End or Extras, but instead they are playing very normal versions of themselves, nothing particularly exaggerated or funny about their personalities in it, in fact this definitely could have brought in more laughs, the humour is slim and any bit that's there is dry. It has its moments, but A Very Murray Christmas is a big disappointment and I expected much more from Bill Murray and Netflix, it's free to watch if you're interested, but I wouldn't recommend it. Bill Murray hosts a Christmas special in New York City, that soon becomes a disaster after a terrible snow storm. Best Performance: Bill Murray "},{"Title":"Star-studded Dud, But Still Worth Checking Out...","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I just saw this brand-new Netflix original Christmas special last night. I see this was directed by "Lost In Translation" director, Sofia Coppola. Bill Murray basically takes that bland dead-pan humor of his you've been seeing all these years, especially on David Letterman's show, and goes center-stage for an all-out holiday extravaganza, Andy Kaufman-style. Paul Shaffer does the music, and guests range from Amy Poehler and Michael Cera to Chris Rock and George Clooney! Overall, I was kinda bored with this little piece, but it's only a little under an hour long, so it might be worth checking out sometime between now and Christmas-?? "},{"Title":"Perhaps the zenith of Modern Civilization","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This is, quite possibly the greatest working collaboration of Celebrity Superstars with Bill "freakin" Murray ever. It is a varied collection of Bill and some of his friends putting together 55 minutes of distracting songs and dance numbers that will keep you from remembering just how quickly it will all come to a screeching halt when you die. Finally, Bill Freakin' Murray.I enjoyed it thoroughly but now must produce 1o lines of text. I will accomplishing by speaking about my favorite song of the Fantastic vocals of the Clooney-Murray Uber- Mensch, Santa Needs Love because, you know, Santa does need love. Bill Freaking Murray love. Get some Santa. "},{"Title":"Good way to contribute Bill Murray!","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I honestly enjoyed this regardless if it's only just a television special. I didn't know Bill Murray could actually sing and it was surprising because I never in my life heard him breaking into a song in his movies! He is pretty good but seeing him now, it makes me feel so old! He is must certainly a part of my childhood, such a legend!I loved the scene where himself and Chris Rock were singing a Christmas song(don't remember what it is called exactly). I wouldn't imagine Chris Rock as a good singer, although he nearly had me in stitches laughing at him for getting up there and sing with the well-known Bill Murray. I would definitely die if I had that opportunity singing with a celebrity haha!I have to say, the best scene was seeing Miley Cyrus singing Christmas songs. She is always the best singer as usual. I finally got to see Maya Rudolph singing her heart was honestly great to hear because being a comedian actor wouldn't make you have time for singing songs in projects like this but at least she had the opportunity. I swear, they have picked the best cast with famous faces including George Clooney. It was great to see them all perform.This special would definitely be the best to watch before going to bed! :) "},{"Title":"A Very Murray Christmas","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I heard in recent years that film and television on-demand service Netflix was creating its own television series and programmes, then they started making films, and I heard about this seasonal offering, so I hoped it would be good, written and directed by Sofia Coppola (Lost in Translation). Basically Bill Murray (also writing), playing himself, is in New York City at the Carlyle Hotel filming a Christmas special for television, and a number of a celebrity guests have been invited. But a massive snowstorm is occurring, Bill is worried no-one will show up for the TV show, he and the producers are doing everything possible to keep things afloat and continue. It is only through a series of coincidence, luck and perseverance that celebrities come along and join Bill to sing along and dance in holiday spirit to create an entertaining show and bring Christmas cheer. Also starring George Clooney, Miley Cyrus, Chris Rock, Michael Cera as Jackie the Talent Agent, Bridemaids' Maya Rudolph as The Lounge Singer, Jason Schwartzman as Elliott the Groom, Rashida Jones as The Bride, Amy Poehler as Liz, Paul Shaffer, Dimitri Dimitrov, Scrooged star David Johansen as The Bartender, Jenny Lewis as The Waitress and Julie White as Bev. Murray has previously played himself in Space Jam, he does well with his trademark presence and quips, the big name co-star do their parts fine also, there are amusing moments, but it is definitely more about the Christmassy singing and dancing, all in all a fun seasonal musical comedy. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"special for some, not so for others","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Resembling at first a gleeful backstage look to a TV Christmas special, this show soon becomes an excuse for a karaoke "Bill Murray and Friends" party. According to its minimal story, the broadcast is canceled because of a snowstorm, but people are still gathering at the bar of the NYC hotel, improvising with Bill, drinking and singing along. Paul Shaffer at the piano keeps the event lively and some of the guests really shine here (we need more of Maya Rudolph by the way).This -Netflix produced- musical comedy, may be cheerful at times but certainly has a gleeful eye for the awkward. And that's what makes it special for some and not so for others. The humor feels natured eccentric (George Clooney's backing vocals on "Santa wants some lovin'", really?) and although Miley Cyrus is dressed and behaving in accordance to let's say:"appropriate festive norms of Santa fantasy", dialogue and visuals don't turn their back in making sexy innuendos. Of course there is always space for satire (aiming showbiz) and ironic words of wisdom, spoken with Murray's charming melancholia. I personally enjoyed the not-so crazy, but few silent moments of our hero's monologues and actually caught myself wanting more of them. Scenes that echoed Sofia Coppola's and Murray's previous work together are surely missed (they 've been 12 long years since Lost in Translation).more on: https://safekryptonite.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"Boring musical","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I guess every actor makes bad decisions when they are provided with enough money or they owe someone a big favor. Apart from that, I cannot understand why such stars like George Clooney, Bill Murray, Chris Rock and Miley Cyrus + a dozen other actors signed up for this. Sofia Coppola as the director? Just what did Netflix blackmail them with?There is no plot. There is a few lines of dialogue between songs that are mostly sung by people who ought to concentrate their efforts on acting instead of singing. They're not bad at singing, but if you're watching music show, you want to see it performed by the best singers possible, right?I wasted an hour of my life watching this show. There were exactly 2 times where I smiled. That's why I gave this film 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superb idea, but eventually it's too low-key","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" This time of year people either go for the undeniable Christmas classics... or set their bars lower and go for some by-the-numbers British/American-yuletide-ensemble cast-romcom, or a lukewarm (at best) holiday-themed comedy made by Adam Sandler or Wayans brothers or someone. Or something that features just cute furry talking animals etc. This is what people expect, so why offer more? Well, enter Netflix. I like Netflix. I like their "Zoetrope"- like attitude and balls to tackle on projects like "Wet hot American summer- the series", and "A Very Murray Christmas". In "Very Murray Christmas" Bill Murray plays... Bill Murray who's snowbound in New York and whose Christmas special is about to go bust. He wanders around the studio building, bumping into celebrities and regular people (played by celebrities) in similar blue situations. And very often these situations turn to singing numbers. The overall feeling is deliberately a little off-putting. It's a thinking man's comedy. Sombre, subtle, and a little meta for good measure. There's no slapstick. No Christmas trees fall down and nobody gets kicked on the balls-and heck, even two of the best Christmas classics, "Die Hard" and "Home alone", went for those in the end! But not "A very Murray Christmas". That's why I really, really, really wanted to like it. I'm sure on paper this looked promising... but in the end the non-comedy just bites itself in the tail. Dropping 2-3 songs in favor of some honest broad comedy would have definitely put this on my yuletides favourites watchlist for years to come. But sadly: no cigar. Actually we're not even so close to one that I should mention 'a cigar'.Anyhow, hats off to Netflix for an attempt full of heart. The idea of it was so great that I really have high hopes Netflix gives this another shot next year. Just instead of Sofia Coppola pick Judd Apatow. Even the idea is ready: 'Bill Murray doesn't want to do another Christmas special because his special last year got so bad reviews'. And because it's BILL MURRAY, it'd be nice to see other fellow seasoned comedy veterans. Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase, Steve Martin, Martin Short anyone? "}][{"Title":"If you didn't get it, then don't watch it","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"18 out of 38 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" If you're into Sofia Coppola and just want to enjoy Christmas without the bells, whistles or morals and rather enjoy a nice martini with George Clooney or a brandy with Bill and the waitress, then this is solid.Don't expect a Groundhog Day comedy, don't expect a sophisticated Wes Anderson film, just enjoy Murray and the atmosphere he brings.Set in a cold storm in Queens, New York, built around great cameos and laid back performances, Murray must figure out how to run his show after everyone's left him, including the electricity.Don't miss this Sofia Coppola gem for the season. You won't regret it. Make sure you have your favorite poison in hand.-Adam Ray "},{"Title":"Very Nearly Christmas","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" I think I figured out what's wrong with this show: Sofia Coppola. Her hip, distanced, meta take on Christmas specials gets everything wrong about the holiday, and makes us wonder if she likes the season at all.Not indie enough to be edgy (how about a Duplass Xmas?), yet this would have been better shot at Union Pool or Silver-Lake Lounge. The writing, which I assume consisted of a quick huddle before cameras rolled on each scene, is desultory and leaves the cast of well-meaning but underpowered celebrity friends hanging in the wind. Not everyone can ad lib with the charm and brio of Bill Murray, and it's unfair to expect them to. Likewise, the demands on their voices was a setup for failure. The only common denominator I could find among the guests, is they must all be on Sofia's phone and readily available. What we would have loved to see: a collection of real characters and comedians getting drunk and holding their own against the greatest karaoke host in the business, Murray. A little rapport would have gone a long way, as summed up in Murray to Chris rock: "I know you...a little." While this may have been a joke, it's impossible to tell. The conceit of Murray and Paul Shaffer holding down a Christmas special in a snowstorm is a good one; even a couple of the scenarios worked. What didn't work was the hipper-than thou tone and tossed-off feel. Highlights: the band Phoenix, who I'd never heard, playing a Beach Boys Christmas song I'd never heard. A really great performance recorded live in carpeted ambiance; "Fairy Tale of New York", with lines broken out for a 3-way delivery; Paul's masterful piano arrangements of everything. Low points: the ill-advised duet of Murray and Chris Rock; the earnestly mediocre number by Maya Rudolph; George Clooney overdoing his popping out from behind a tree shtick. I was hoping for the zany antics of Pee-Wee's special mixed with the wry parody of Stephen Colbert's. But those shows must have had pre-production. "},{"Title":"Your life might just depend on it","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" In Scrooged (1989) Bill Murray played a high powered TV executive who plans to put on a live Christmas Day special. Paul Shaffer and David Johansen appeared in the movie.In 2015 Bill Murray appears in this Netflix special directed by Sofia Coppola. It is really an experimental post modern Christmas Special. Bill Murray is reluctantly hosting a live television special but worries no one will show up due to a snowstorm in New York City.He ropes in a passing Chris Rock and later various people playing characters in the hotel used for the filming start to sing and dance to festive songs. When Murray gets sloshed and falls into a drunken stupor he sings and dances with Miley Cyrus and George Clooney.It starts off slowly but gets better because some song and dance numbers are better than others. There is background story where actors like Jason Schwartzman and Maya Rudolph appear as characters.However even as a 60 minutes special it really did not hold my interest too much and I cannot remember much of the songs after few hours from watching it. Maybe Murray should had roped in Lee Majors as he did in Scrooged. "},{"Title":"Most humor comes from its own existence","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Previous icon of Groundhog Day, Bill Murray, stars as the front-man of Netflix's new holiday special. Right from the get-go, "A Very Murray Christmas" is a confusing affair. Whenever a new character is introduced the viewer has to determine whether or not the a member of it's fairly impressive cast plays themselves or just another character. A prime example being Amy Poehler playing, "Liz", a main character that very well could have just been Amy Poehler, as a majority of the cast plays themselves.The special is musically driven and in most cases fun. Paul Shaffer is an absolute delight and often works well will Murrays charm. The quality of both the music and the special itself improves upon itself throughout its 56 minutes. However, unless accompanied by another cast member, Bill Murrays singing can be dry, with the first music numbers being the specials worst.The beginning of A Very Murray Christmas is debatably terrible, and due to this first scene it's hard to tell who it appeals to. Every aspect of the hour is appropriate for children but only after excusing the explicit language in the first scene, not that it ruins the quality, it was just an odd choice for the content matter. Bottom line is that it's not funny and it doesn't really have a point but it makes it well. Fun, charming Murray makes the special as the rest of the cast makes the music. No distinct direction, but no distinct flaw 7.3/10 "},{"Title":"Instant NOT a classic","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" If ever there is a time to be sweet and silly, or even sweet and melancholy Christmas is it. They couldn't pull it off, not on any level. Now I really miss Harold Ramis. All their attempts at emotion came off as meaningless and forced, both the dialogue and the singing. A Dean Martin celebrity roast is better than this. We wanted to like it, the whole family sat down to enjoy it, a very unusual situation. All Bill Murray fans, all love Lost in Translation and Groundhog Day, Caddy Shack. We didn't even make it half way, misery for the whole family. Murray's problem, called their plot I guess, just wasn't engaging because he was never believable as an underdog. In Lost in Translation, Japan is bigger than he is, and in a charming way eventually so is young Scarlet. And in Groundhog Day life and death overshadows him but in this thing Murray comes off as bigger than Christmas, more important than anything, God bless me everyone. People talk about the war on Christmas -- they killed it. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" Murray plays himself in this variety show within a variety show, which nobody attends due to a blizzard. With his worries come true, Murray wallows through New York City's Carlyle Hotel with the holiday blues, but fellow guests will get him by with some Christmas spirit. Great song selection and performances, but each number is performed in its entirety, dragging things on a lot longer than necessary. The ensemble cast includes cast and crew that have become part of Murray's modern clique, making A VERY MURRAY CHRSTIMAS seem (appropriately) like a group of friends getting together for the Holidays but at the end of it all, this Christmas special just doesn't end up being all that funny. (out of four) "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable Christmas special, without the magic of Christmas.","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"21 out of 49 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Musical","Review":" A Very Murray Christmas is a really fun Christmas special. It stars Bill Murray as himself, Chris Rock, George Clooney, Miley Cyrus and so many talented stars, playing themselves. You can watch this film as a cranky and stubborn 6 year old and still enjoy this film. It has a good amount of stupid humor but also smarter jokes in the movie that balance the humor out so it isn't just dumb, which I particularly like. However despite what I said above, this movie isn't all that special. I've seen better Christmas movies because they were iconic and memorable, but this special felt like a big setup for a bunch of jokes with Murray. If your sole reason is to watch this movie because it is a Christmas film, you will be a little disappointed. But regardless what I've said above, this movie is full of songs to occupy the younger viewers, enough jokes to satisfy the teen viewers, and enough Bill Murray for everyone else. The cast is brilliant and the songs were not irritating to the point I tore out my hair. This movie seems very natural, but isn't very magical. As a comedy, a solid 9.5 out of ten. As a Christmas film, 7.3/10. Overall, 8.4/10 "}]