[{"Title":"Out of this world Ice Age","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Clearly inspired by the success of this year's The Martian, Cosmic Scrat-tastrophe gives us the first Ice Age short I've seen in years, and a good one at that. Having toyed with time travel and dinosaurs before, this time Scrat stumbles upon- and into- the spaceship we briefly saw trapped in ice in the first film. Rather inventive in giving us acorn steering and an explanation of how Scrat inadvertently flies the ship into space, there are a few nice gags and a nice musical homage to 2001. We know from previous Ice Age films how Scrat is responsible for continental drift, but who knew he also aligned the Solar System, gave Jupiter its Red Spot and put Saturn between the rings? And at the end we have the typically cruel punchline at Sid's expense. (I've always actually preferred Sid to Scrat- the lesser-known short Surviving Sid is still the best Ice Age short).So Bring Scrat Home indeed- we don't want to part with this character. "},{"Title":"If you seen one SCRAT cartoon you have seen them All","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Cosmic Scart-tastrophe Is just another example of why Ice Age has over stayed it welcomeScart Acorn Joke was funny when I first saw it 15 years ago now It just a burn out joke that has gotten so old that it's not even funny anymore I just wish they retired this series because it has become a torn in my sideWhile I say the animation is amazing it is a very crafted C G I work great attention to detail so that gets points However it is just the same gimmick same old song and dance that has been done too many times that you already know what to expect before the cartoon startsI mean how many times can you play the same story without people getting bored with it? I only got to saw this because it plays before the Peanuts movie as a bonus cartoon which I would have took a short Snoopy special over thisI give Cosmic Scart-tastrophe an 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Nothing new here anymore","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" "Cosmic Scrat-tastrophe" is, as you may have guessed already, another Ice Age Scrat short movie. They have been making these for a long time and "they", in this case, refers to director Mike Thurmeier, who also worked on several other Scrat short movies. This one here takes him to the moon and he has to get out of the way of planets and asteroids while always keeping an eye on his precious food. The other "Ice Age" characters (including their voice actors) have a short cameo at the end as well, but that one is as unfunny as everything before it. The routine of Scrat's screaming and all these collisions and changes to the Earth (and other planets now too) has truly gotten scale by now. It's time to put a halt to these. They are certainly exploiting the character of Scrat as much as they can and it's not helping at all. Weak short film, never interesting, only the animation is okay. Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Bad short film, but some thrillers","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I was disappointed. This short came on before The Peanuts Movie, which was disappointing as well. This was a very intense short film with nothing that looks like it had any effort. Just explosions and Solar System disasters and nothing creative. The movie is bad. It's not entertaining (which is how I judge some movies).I rate this movie 6/10. Do better next time punk! I hate when movies do this.The guy is looking for his acorn and then he is moving around. He then falls in a hole and then goes in a space ship he secretly finds. He goes to space and knocks and destroys the solar system. "},{"Title":"Poor Scrat!","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Scrat, that silly prehistoric saber toothed squirrel from the Ice Age franchise that has since proved popular enough to become the logo character of Blue Sky Studios, the movies' production company, is at it again. This time his nut chasing antics somehow send him into outer space, completely changing the game and genre for the little guy and setting into motion a series of world changing events. But will poor Scrat ever get his nut?There are some little laughs and a lot of "how does that actually work" if you try to use too much reason with this short. Without reason, though, it's a quick romp that's sure to entertain children, just like all of his previous outings. It is, indeed, the exact same formula yet again, just in a different setting, easily falling into the generic memory of them all. But, as I said, children eat up his mindless slapstick comedy, no matter how mediocre it may seem, and that really is the point, isn't it?The short does give a little nod to known science fiction and outer space films, though not enough to make it truly referential and worthwhile. For those that are fans of the Ice Age films, however, these Scrat shorts do answer some questions involving the overall story, and keep pretty good continuity all throughout. But that really only means that this cosmic adventure raises more questions than it answers. Nuts! "},{"Title":"The first thing to remember about this animated short is that . . .","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful:","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" . . . it comes from the same folks who pretend to believe that people rode around on dinosaurs (just like the FLINTSTONES) 6,000 years ago or so; that global warming is NOT happening; that the glaciers and polar ice caps are NOT melting; and that the moon is made of green cheese: Yup, Twentieth Century Fox, as in Fox "News." Therefore, when this propaganda piece--carefully targeted at millions of unsuspecting families who have shelled out their cash to see THE PEANUTS MOVIE--gains wide circulation, it's crucial to remember that at least one third of ALL Americans will take it as pure Gospel, swallowing its Pseudo-Scientific underpinnings hook, line, and sinker (mostly because they attended public schools in former Confederate States, or "charter" and church schools in ANY state, where it's frowned upon if not illegal to impart a semblance of critical thinking skills to the youngsters who will be the Fox "news people" of Tomorrow). According to this brief flick, our solar system as we know it came to be due to the shenanigans of a Sabre-Toothed Space Squirrel and his Magic Acorn. "}]